 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Overview of 

Amazon Web Services 

 

January 2020 

 

 

 

Notices 
Customers are responsible for making their own independent assessment of 
the information in this document. This document: (a) is for informational 
purposes only, (b) represents current AWS product offerings and practices, 
which are subject to change without notice, and (c) does not create any 
commitments or assurances from AWS and its affiliates, suppliers or licensors. 
AWS products or services are provided “as is” without warranties, 
representations, or conditions of any kind, whether express or implied. The 
responsibilities and liabilities of AWS to its customers are controlled by AWS 
agreements, and this document is not part of, nor does it modify, any 
agreement between AWS and its customers. 

© 2020 Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved. 

 

 

 

Contents 
Introduction ............................................................................................................ 1 

What is Cloud Computing? .................................................................................... 1 

Six Advantages of Cloud Computing .................................................................... 2 

Types of Cloud Computing .................................................................................... 3 

Cloud Computing Models ................................................................................... 3 

Cloud Computing Deployment Models .............................................................. 4 

Global Infrastructure .............................................................................................. 5 

Security and Compliance ....................................................................................... 6 

Security ............................................................................................................... 6 

Compliance ......................................................................................................... 7 

Amazon Web Services Cloud Platform ................................................................. 8 

AWS Management Console ............................................................................... 8 

AWS Command Line Interface ........................................................................... 8 

Software Development Kits ................................................................................ 8 

Analytics .............................................................................................................. 8 

Application Integration ...................................................................................... 14 

AR and VR ........................................................................................................ 16 

AWS Cost Management ................................................................................... 16 

Blockchain ......................................................................................................... 18 

Business Applications....................................................................................... 18 

Compute ........................................................................................................... 20 

Customer Engagement .................................................................................... 26 

Database ........................................................................................................... 26 

Desktop and App Streaming ............................................................................ 31 

Developer Tools................................................................................................ 32 

Game Tech ....................................................................................................... 35 

 

Internet of Things (IoT) ..................................................................................... 35 

Machine Learning ............................................................................................. 42 

Management and Governance ......................................................................... 52 

Media Services ................................................................................................. 60 

Migration and Transfer ..................................................................................... 62 

Mobile ................................................................................................................ 67 

Networking and Content Delivery .................................................................... 69 

Robotics ............................................................................................................ 75 

Satellite ............................................................................................................. 76 

Security, Identity, and Compliance .................................................................. 77 

Storage.............................................................................................................. 84 

Next Steps ............................................................................................................ 87 

Conclusion............................................................................................................ 88 

Contributors .......................................................................................................... 88 

Further Reading ................................................................................................... 88 

Document Revisions ............................................................................................ 89 

 

 

 

 

Abstract 
Amazon Web Services offers a broad set of global cloud-based products 
including compute, storage, databases, analytics, networking, mobile, 
developer tools, management tools, IoT, security, and enterprise applications: 
on-demand, available in seconds, with pay-as-you-go pricing. From data 
warehousing to deployment tools, directories to content delivery, over 140 AWS 
services are available. New services can be provisioned quickly, without the 
upfront capital expense. This allows enterprises, start-ups, small and medium-
sized businesses, and customers in the public sector to access the building 
blocks they need to respond quickly to changing business requirements. This 
whitepaper provides you with an overview of the beneﬁts of the AWS Cloud and 
introduces you to the services that make up the platform. 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Introduction 

In 2006, Amazon Web Services (AWS) began oﬀering IT infrastructure services 
to businesses as web services—now commonly known as cloud computing. 
One of the key beneﬁts of cloud computing is the opportunity to replace upfront 
capital infrastructure expenses with low variable costs that scale with   your 
business. With the cloud, businesses no longer need to plan for and procure 
servers and other IT infrastructure weeks or months in advance. Instead, they 
can instantly spin up hundreds or thousands of servers in minutes and deliver 
results faster. 

Today, AWS provides a highly reliable, scalable, low-cost infrastructure platform 
in the cloud that powers hundreds of thousands of businesses in 190 countries 
around the world.  

What is Cloud Computing? 
Cloud computing is the on-demand delivery of compute power, database 
storage, applications, and other IT resources through a cloud services platform 
via the Internet with pay-as-you-go pricing. Whether you are running 
applications that share photos to millions of mobile users or you’re supporting 
the critical operations of your business, a cloud services platform provides rapid 
access to ﬂexible and low-cost IT resources. With cloud computing, you don’t 
need to make large upfront investments in hardware and spend a lot of time on 
the heavy lifting of managing that hardware. Instead, you can provision exactly 
the right type and size of computing resources you need to power your newest 
bright idea or operate your IT department. You can access as many resources 
as you need, almost instantly, and only pay for what you use. 

Cloud computing provides a simple way to access servers, storage, databases 
and a broad set of application services over the Internet. A cloud services 
platform, such as Amazon Web Services, owns and maintains the network-
connected hardware required for these application services, while you provision 
and use what you need via a web application. 

Page 1 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Six Advantages of Cloud Computing 

•  Trade capital expense for variable expense – Instead of having to 

invest heavily in data centers and servers before you know how you’re 
going to use them, you can pay only when you consume computing 
resources, and pay only for how much you consume. 

•  Beneﬁt from massive economies of scale – By using cloud 

computing, you can achieve a lower variable cost than you can get on 
your own. Because usage from hundreds of thousands of customers is 
aggregated in the cloud, providers such as AWS can achieve higher 
economies of scale, which translates into lower pay as-you-go prices. 

•  Stop guessing capacity – Eliminate guessing on your infrastructure 

capacity needs. When you make a capacity decision prior to deploying 
an application, you often end up either sitting on expensive idle 
resources or dealing with limited capacity. With cloud computing, these 
problems go away. You can access as much or as little capacity as you 
need, and scale up and down as required with only a few minutes’ 
notice. 

• 

Increase speed and agility – In a cloud computing environment, new IT 
resources are only a click away, which means that you reduce the time 
to make those resources available to your developers from   weeks to 
just minutes. This results in a dramatic increase in agility for the 
organization, since the cost and time it takes to experiment and develop 
is signiﬁcantly lower. 

•  Stop spending money running and maintaining data centers – Focus 

on projects that diﬀerentiate your business, not the infrastructure. Cloud 
computing lets you focus on your own customers, rather than on the 
heavy lifting of racking, stacking, and powering servers. 

•  Go global in minutes – Easily deploy your application in multiple 

regions around the world with just a few clicks. This means you can 
provide lower latency and a better experience for your customers at 
minimal cost. 

 

Page 2 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Types of Cloud Computing 
Cloud computing provides developers and IT departments with the ability to 
focus on what matters most and avoid undiﬀerentiated work such as 
procurement, maintenance, and capacity planning. As cloud computing has 
grown in popularity, several diﬀerent models and deployment strategies have 
emerged to help meet speciﬁc needs of diﬀerent users. Each type of cloud 
service and deployment method provides you with diﬀerent levels of control, 
ﬂexibility, and management. Understanding the diﬀerences between 
Infrastructure as a Service, Platform as a Service, and Software as a Service, 
as well as what deployment strategies you can use, can help you decide what 
set of services is right for your needs. 

Cloud Computing Models 

Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) 

Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) contains the basic building blocks for cloud IT 
and typically provide access to networking features, computers (virtual or on 
dedicated hardware), and data storage space. IaaS provides you with the 
highest level of ﬂexibility and management control over your IT resources and is 
most similar to existing IT resources that many IT departments and developers 
are familiar with today. 

Platform as a Service (PaaS) 

Platform as a Service (PaaS) removes the need for your organization to 
manage the underlying infrastructure (usually hardware and operating systems) 
and allows you to focus on the deployment and management of your 
applications. This helps you be more eﬃcient as you don’t need to worry about 
resource procurement, capacity planning, software maintenance, patching, or 
any of the other undiﬀerentiated heavy lifting involved in running your 
application. 

Software as a Service (SaaS) 

Software as a Service (SaaS) provides you with a completed product that is run 
and managed by the service provider. In most cases, people referring to 
Software as a Service are referring to end-user applications. With a SaaS 
oﬀering you do not have to think about how the service is maintained or how the 

Page 3 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

underlying infrastructure is managed; you only need to think about how you will 
use that particular piece of software. A common example of a SaaS application 
is web-based email which you can use to send and receive email without 
having to manage feature additions to the email product or maintain the servers 
and operating systems that the email program is running on. 

Cloud Computing Deployment Models 

Cloud 

A cloud-based application is fully deployed in the cloud and all parts of the 
application run in the cloud. Applications in the cloud have either been created 
in the cloud or have been migrated from an existing infrastructure to take 
advantage of the beneﬁts of cloud computing. Cloud-based applications can be 
built on low-level infrastructure pieces or can use higher level services that 
provide abstraction from the management, architecting, and scaling 
requirements of core infrastructure. 

Hybrid 

A hybrid deployment is a way to connect infrastructure and applications 
between cloud-based resources and existing resources that are not located in 
the cloud. The most common method of hybrid deployment is between the 
cloud and existing on-premises infrastructure to extend, and grow, an 
organization's infrastructure into the cloud while connecting cloud resources to 
the internal system. For more information on how AWS can help you with your 
hybrid deployment, please visit our hybrid page. 

On-premises 

The deployment of resources on-premises, using virtualization and resource 
management tools, is sometimes called the “private cloud.” On-premises 
deployment doesn’t provide many of the beneﬁts of cloud computing but is 
sometimes sought for its ability to provide dedicated resources. In most cases 
this deployment model is the same as legacy IT infrastructure while using 
application management and virtualization technologies to try and increase 
resource utilization. 

Page 4 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Global Infrastructure 
AWS serves over a million active customers in more than 190 countries. We are 
steadily expanding global infrastructure to help our customers achieve lower 
latency and higher throughput, and to ensure that their data resides only in the 
AWS Region they specify. As our customers grow their businesses, AWS will 
continue to provide infrastructure that meets their global requirements. 

The AWS Cloud infrastructure is built around AWS Regions and Availability 
Zones. An AWS Region is a physical location in the world where we have 
multiple Availability Zones. Availability Zones consist of one or more discrete 
data centers, each with redundant power, networking, and connectivity, housed 
in separate facilities. These Availability Zones oﬀer you the ability to operate 
production applications and databases that are more highly available, fault 
tolerant, and scalable than would be possible from a single data center. The 
AWS Cloud operates in over 60 Availability Zones within over 20 geographic 
Regions around the world, with announced plans for more Availability Zones 
and Regions. For more information on the AWS Cloud Availability Zones and 
AWS Regions, see AWS Global Infrastructure. 

Each Amazon Region is designed to be completely isolated from the other 
Amazon Regions. This achieves the greatest possible fault tolerance and 
stability. Each Availability Zone is isolated, but the Availability Zones in a 
Region are connected through low-latency links. AWS provides you with the 
ﬂexibility to place instances and store data within multiple geographic regions 
as well as across multiple Availability Zones within each AWS Region. Each 
Availability Zone is designed as an independent failure zone. This means that 
Availability Zones are physically separated within a typical metropolitan region   
and are located in lower risk ﬂood plains (speciﬁc ﬂood zone categorization 
varies by AWS Region). In addition to discrete uninterruptable power supply 
(UPS) and onsite backup generation facilities, they are each fed via diﬀerent 
grids from independent utilities to further reduce single points of failure. 
Availability Zones are all redundantly connected to multiple tier-1 transit 
providers. 

Page 5 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Security and Compliance 

Security 

Cloud security at AWS is the highest priority. As an AWS customer, you will 
beneﬁt from a data center and network architecture built to meet the 
requirements of the most security-sensitive organizations. Security in the cloud 
is much like security in your on-premises data centers—only without the costs 
of maintaining facilities and hardware. In the cloud, you don’t have to manage 
physical servers or storage devices. Instead, you use software-based security 
tools to monitor and protect the ﬂow of information into and of out of your cloud 
resources. 

An advantage of the AWS Cloud is that it allows you to scale and innovate, 
while maintaining a secure environment and paying only for the services you 
use. This means that you can have the security you need at a lower cost than in 
an on-premises environment. 

As an AWS customer you inherit all the best practices of AWS policies, 
architecture, and operational processes built to satisfy the requirements of our 
most security-sensitive customers. Get the ﬂexibility and agility you need in 
security controls. 

The AWS Cloud enables a shared responsibility model. While AWS  manages 
security of the cloud, you  are responsible for security in the cloud. This means 
that you retain control of the security you choose to implement to protect your 
own content, platform, applications, systems, and networks no diﬀerently than 
you would in an on-site data center. 

AWS provides you with guidance and expertise through online resources, 
personnel, and partners. AWS provides you with advisories for current issues, 
plus you have the opportunity to work with AWS when you encounter security 
issues. 

You get access to hundreds of tools and features to help you to meet your 
security objectives. AWS provides security-speciﬁc tools and features across 
network security, conﬁguration management, access control, and data 
encryption. 

Finally, AWS environments are continuously audited, with certiﬁcations from 
accreditation bodies across geographies and verticals. In the AWS 

Page 6 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

environment, you can take advantage of automated tools for asset inventory 
and privileged access reporting. 

Beneﬁts of AWS Security 

•  Keep Your Data Safe: The AWS infrastructure puts strong safeguards in 

place to help protect your privacy. All data is stored in highly secure 
AWS data centers. 

•  Meet Compliance Requirements: AWS manages dozens of 

compliance programs in its infrastructure. This means that segments of 
your compliance have already been completed. 

•  Save Money: Cut costs by using AWS data centers. Maintain the 

highest standard of security without having to manage your own facility 

•  Scale Quickly: Security scales with your AWS Cloud usage. No matter 

the size of your business, the AWS infrastructure is designed to keep 
your data safe. 

Compliance 

AWS Cloud Compliance enables you to understand the robust controls in place 
at AWS to maintain security and data protection in the cloud. As systems are 
built on top of AWS Cloud infrastructure, compliance responsibilities will be 
shared. By tying together governance-focused, audit-friendly service features 
with applicable compliance or audit standards, AWS Compliance enablers build 
on traditional programs. This helps customers to establish and operate in an 
AWS security control environment. 

The IT infrastructure that AWS provides to its customers is designed and 
managed in alignment with best security practices and a variety of IT security 
standards. The following is a partial list of assurance programs with which AWS 
complies: 

•  SOC 1/ISAE 3402, SOC 2, SOC 3 

•  FISMA, DIACAP, and FedRAMP 

•  PCI DSS Level 1 

• 

ISO 9001, ISO 27001, ISO 27017, ISO 27018 

Page 7 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

AWS provides customers a wide range of information on its IT control 
environment in whitepapers, reports, certiﬁcations, accreditations, and other 
third-party attestations. More information is available in the Risk and 
Compliance whitepaper and the AWS Security Center. 

Amazon Web Services Cloud Platform 
AWS consists of many cloud services that you can use in combinations tailored 
to your business or organizational needs. This section introduces the major 
AWS services by category. To access the services, you can use the AWS 
Management Console, the Command Line Interface, or Software Development 
Kits (SDKs). 

AWS Management Console 

Access and manage Amazon Web Services through the AWS Management 
Console, a simple and intuitive user interface. You can also use the AWS 
Console Mobile Application to quickly view resources on the go. 

AWS Command Line Interface 

The AWS Command Line Interface (CLI) is a uniﬁed tool to manage your AWS 
services. With just one tool to download and conﬁgure, you can control multiple 
AWS services from the command line and automate them through scripts. 

Software Development Kits 

Our Software Development Kits (SDKs) simplify using AWS services in your 
applications with an Application Program Interface (API) tailored to your 
programming language or platform. 

Analytics 

Amazon Athena 

Amazon Athena is an interactive query service that makes it easy to analyze 
data in Amazon S3 using standard SQL. Athena is serverless, so there is no 
infrastructure to manage, and you pay only for the queries that you run. 

Page 8 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Athena is easy to use. Simply point to your data in Amazon S3, deﬁne the 
schema, and start querying using standard SQL. Most results are delivered 
within seconds. With Athena, there’s no need for complex extract, transform, 
and load (ETL) jobs to prepare your data for analysis. This makes it easy for 
anyone with SQL skills to quickly analyze large-scale datasets. 

Athena is out-of-the-box integrated with AWS Glue Data Catalog, allowing you 
to create a unified metadata repository across various services, crawl data 
sources to discover schemas and populate your Catalog with new and modified 
table and partition definitions, and maintain schema versioning. You can also 
use Glue’s fully-managed ETL capabilities to transform data or convert it into 
columnar formats to optimize cost and improve performance. 

Amazon EMR 

Amazon EMR provides a managed Hadoop framework that makes it easy, fast, 
and cost-eﬀective to process vast amounts of data across dynamically scalable 
Amazon EC2 instances. You can also run other popular distributed frameworks 
such as Apache Spark, HBase, Presto, and Flink in Amazon EMR, and interact 
with data in other AWS data stores such as Amazon S3 and Amazon 
DynamoDB. EMR Notebooks, based on the popular Jupyter Notebook, provide 
a development and collaboration environment for ad hoc querying and 
exploratory analysis. 

Amazon EMR securely and reliably handles a broad set of big data use cases, 
including log analysis, web indexing, data transformations (ETL), machine 
learning, ﬁnancial analysis, scientiﬁc simulation, and bioinformatics. 

Amazon CloudSearch 

Amazon CloudSearch is a managed service in the AWS Cloud that makes it 
simple and cost-eﬀective to set up, manage, and scale a search solution for 
your website or application. Amazon CloudSearch supports 34 languages and 
popular search features such as highlighting, autocomplete, and geospatial 
search. 

Amazon Elasticsearch Service 

Amazon Elasticsearch Service makes it easy to deploy, secure, operate, and 
scale Elasticsearch to search, analyze, and visualize data in real-time. With 
Amazon Elasticsearch Service, you get easy-to-use APIs and real-time 

Page 9 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

analytics capabilities to power use-cases such as log analytics, full-text search, 
application monitoring, and clickstream analytics, with enterprise-grade 
availability, scalability, and security. The service oﬀers integrations with open-
source tools like Kibana and Logstash for data ingestion and visualization. It 
also integrates seamlessly with other AWS services such as Amazon Virtual 
Private Cloud (Amazon VPC), AWS Key Management System (AWS KMS), 
Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose, AWS Lambda, AWS Identity and Access 
Management (IAM), Amazon Cognito, and Amazon CloudWatch, so that you 
can go from raw data to actionable insights quickly. 

Amazon Kinesis 

Amazon Kinesis makes it easy to collect, process, and analyze real-time, 
streaming data so you can get timely insights and react quickly to new 
information. Amazon Kinesis offers key capabilities to cost-effectively process 
streaming data at any scale, along with the flexibility to choose the tools that 
best suit the requirements of your application. With Amazon Kinesis, you can 
ingest real-time data such as video, audio, application logs, website 
clickstreams, and IoT telemetry data for machine learning, analytics, and other 
applications. Amazon Kinesis enables you to process and analyze data as it 
arrives and respond instantly instead of having to wait until all your data is 
collected before the processing can begin. 

Amazon Kinesis currently oﬀers four services: Kinesis Data Firehose, Kinesis 
Data Analytics, Kinesis Data Streams, and Kinesis Video Streams. 

Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose 

Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose is the easiest way to reliably load streaming 
data into data stores and analytics tools. It can capture, transform, and load 
streaming data into Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift, Amazon Elasticsearch 
Service, and Splunk, enabling near real-time analytics with existing business 
intelligence tools and dashboards you’re already using today. It is a fully 
managed service that automatically scales to match the throughput of your data 
and requires no ongoing administration. It can also batch, compress, transform, 
and encrypt the data before loading it, minimizing the amount of storage used at 
the destination and increasing security. 

You can easily create a Firehose delivery stream from the AWS Management 
Console, conﬁgure it with a few clicks, and start sending data to the stream 
from hundreds of thousands of data sources to be loaded continuously to 

Page 10 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

AWS—all in just a few minutes. You can also configure your delivery stream to 
automatically convert the incoming data to columnar formats like Apache 
Parquet and Apache ORC, before the data is delivered to Amazon S3, for cost-
effective storage and analytics. 

Amazon Kinesis Data Analytics 

Amazon Kinesis Data Analytics is the easiest way to analyze streaming data, 
gain actionable insights, and respond to your business and customer needs in 
real time. Amazon Kinesis Data Analytics reduces the complexity of building, 
managing, and integrating streaming applications with other AWS services. 
SQL users can easily query streaming data or build entire streaming 
applications using templates and an interactive SQL editor. Java developers 
can quickly build sophisticated streaming applications using open source Java 
libraries and AWS integrations to transform and analyze data in real-time. 

Amazon Kinesis Data Analytics takes care of everything required to run your 
queries continuously and scales automatically to match the volume and 
throughput rate of your incoming data. 

Amazon Kinesis Data Streams 

Amazon Kinesis Data Streams (KDS) is a massively scalable and durable real-
time data streaming service. KDS can continuously capture gigabytes of data 
per second from hundreds of thousands of sources such as website 
clickstreams, database event streams, financial transactions, social media 
feeds, IT logs, and location-tracking events. The data collected is available in 
milliseconds to enable real-time analytics use cases such as real-time 
dashboards, real-time anomaly detection, dynamic pricing, and more. 

Amazon Kinesis Video Streams 

Amazon Kinesis Video Streams makes it easy to securely stream video from 
connected devices to AWS for analytics, machine learning (ML), playback, and 
other processing. Kinesis Video Streams automatically provisions and 
elastically scales all the infrastructure needed to ingest streaming video data 
from millions of devices. It also durably stores, encrypts, and indexes video data 
in your streams, and allows you to access your data through easy-to-use APIs. 
Kinesis Video Streams enables you to playback video for live and on-demand 
viewing, and quickly build applications that take advantage of computer vision 

Page 11 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

and video analytics through integration with Amazon Recognition Video, and 
libraries for ML frameworks such as Apache MxNet, TensorFlow, and OpenCV. 

Amazon Redshift 

Amazon Redshift is a fast, scalable data warehouse that makes it simple and 
cost-effective to analyze all your data across your data warehouse and data 
lake. Redshift delivers ten times faster performance than other data 
warehouses by using machine learning, massively parallel query execution, and 
columnar storage on high-performance disk. You can setup and deploy a new 
data warehouse in minutes, and run queries across petabytes of data in your 
Redshift data warehouse, and exabytes of data in your data lake built on 
Amazon S3. You can start small for just $0.25 per hour and scale to $250 per 
terabyte per year, less than one-tenth the cost of other solutions. 

Amazon QuickSight 

Amazon QuickSight is a fast, cloud-powered business intelligence (BI) service 
that makes it easy for you to deliver insights to everyone in your organization. 
QuickSight lets you create and publish interactive dashboards that can be 
accessed from browsers or mobile devices. You can embed dashboards into 
your applications, providing your customers with powerful self-service analytics. 
QuickSight easily scales to tens of thousands of users without any software to 
install, servers to deploy, or infrastructure to manage. 

AWS Data Pipeline 

AWS Data Pipeline is a web service that helps you reliably process and move 
data between diﬀerent AWS compute and storage services, as well as on-
premises data sources, at speciﬁed intervals. With AWS Data Pipeline, you can 
regularly access your data where it’s stored, transform and process it at scale, 
and eﬃciently transfer the results to AWS services such as Amazon S3, 
Amazon RDS, Amazon DynamoDB, and Amazon EMR. 

AWS Data Pipeline helps you easily create complex data processing workloads 
that are fault tolerant, repeatable, and highly available. You don’t have to worry 
about ensuring resource availability, managing inter-task dependencies, 
retrying transient failures or timeouts in individual tasks, or creating a failure 
notiﬁcation system. AWS Data Pipeline also allows you to move and process 
data that was previously locked up in on-premises data silos. 

Page 12 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

AWS Glue 

AWS Glue is a fully managed extract, transform, and load (ETL) service that 
makes it easy for customers to prepare and load their data for analytics. You 
can create and run an ETL job with a few clicks in the AWS Management 
Console. You simply point AWS Glue to your data stored on AWS, and AWS 
Glue discovers your data and stores the associated metadata (e.g. table 
definition and schema) in the AWS Glue Data Catalog. Once cataloged, your 
data is immediately searchable, queryable, and available for ETL. 

AWS Lake Formation 

AWS Lake Formation is a service that makes it easy to set up a secure data 
lake in days. A data lake is a centralized, curated, and secured repository that 
stores all your data, both in its original form and prepared for analysis. A data 
lake enables you to break down data silos and combine different types of 
analytics to gain insights and guide better business decisions. 

However, setting up and managing data lakes today involves a lot of manual, 
complicated, and time-consuming tasks. This work includes loading data from 
diverse sources, monitoring those data flows, setting up partitions, turning on 
encryption and managing keys, defining transformation jobs and monitoring 
their operation, re-organizing data into a columnar format, configuring access 
control settings, deduplicating redundant data, matching linked records, 
granting access to data sets, and auditing access over time. 

Creating a data lake with Lake Formation is as simple as defining where your 
data resides and what data access and security policies you want to apply. 
Lake Formation then collects and catalogs data from databases and object 
storage, moves the data into your new Amazon S3 data lake, cleans and 
classifies data using machine learning algorithms, and secures access to your 
sensitive data. Your users can then access a centralized catalog of data which 
describes available data sets and their appropriate usage. Your users then 
leverage these data sets with their choice of analytics and machine learning 
services, like Amazon EMR for Apache Spark, Amazon Redshift, Amazon 
Athena, Amazon SageMaker, and Amazon QuickSight. 

Amazon Managed Streaming for Kafka (MSK) 

Amazon Managed Streaming for Kafka (Amazon MSK) is a fully managed 
service that makes it easy for you to build and run applications that use Apache 

Page 13 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Kafka to process streaming data. Apache Kafka is an open-source platform for 
building real-time streaming data pipelines and applications. With Amazon 
MSK, you can use Apache Kafka APIs to populate data lakes, stream changes 
to and from databases, and power machine learning and analytics applications. 

Apache Kafka clusters are challenging to setup, scale, and manage in 
production. When you run Apache Kafka on your own, you need to provision 
servers, configure Apache Kafka manually, replace servers when they fail, 
orchestrate server patches and upgrades, architect the cluster for high 
availability, ensure data is durably stored and secured, setup monitoring and 
alarms, and carefully plan scaling events to support load changes. Amazon 
Managed Streaming for Kafka makes it easy for you to build and run production 
applications on Apache Kafka without needing Apache Kafka infrastructure 
management expertise. That means you spend less time managing 
infrastructure and more time building applications. 

With a few clicks in the Amazon MSK console you can create highly available 
Apache Kafka clusters with settings and configuration based on Apache Kafka’s 
deployment best practices. Amazon MSK automatically provisions and runs 
your Apache Kafka clusters. Amazon MSK continuously monitors cluster health 
and automatically replaces unhealthy nodes with no downtime to your 
application. In addition, Amazon MSK secures your Apache Kafka cluster by 
encrypting data at rest. 

Application Integration 

AWS Step Functions 

AWS Step Functions lets you coordinate multiple AWS services into serverless 
workflows so you can build and update apps quickly. Using Step Functions, you 
can design and run workflows that stitch together services such as AWS 
Lambda and Amazon ECS into feature-rich applications. Workflows are made 
up of a series of steps, with the output of one step acting as input into the next. 
Application development is simpler and more intuitive using Step Functions, 
because it translates your workflow into a state machine diagram that is easy to 
understand, easy to explain to others, and easy to change. You can monitor 
each step of execution as it happens, which means you can identify and fix 
problems quickly. Step Functions automatically triggers and tracks each step, 
and retries when there are errors, so your application executes in order and as 
expected. 

Page 14 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Amazon MQ 

Amazon MQ is a managed message broker service for Apache ActiveMQ that 
makes it easy to set up and operate message brokers in the cloud. Message 
brokers allow different software systems–often using different programming 
languages, and on different platforms–to communicate and exchange 
information. Amazon MQ reduces your operational load by managing the 
provisioning, setup, and maintenance of ActiveMQ, a popular open-source 
message broker. Connecting your current applications to Amazon MQ is easy 
because it uses industry-standard APIs and protocols for messaging, including 
JMS, NMS, AMQP, STOMP, MQTT, and WebSocket. Using standards means 
that in most cases, there’s no need to rewrite any messaging code when you 
migrate to AWS. 

Amazon SQS 

Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) is a fully managed message 
queuing service that enables you to decouple and scale microservices, 
distributed systems, and serverless applications. SQS eliminates the complexity 
and overhead associated with managing and operating message oriented 
middleware, and empowers developers to focus on differentiating work. Using 
SQS, you can send, store, and receive messages between software 
components at any volume, without losing messages or requiring other services 
to be available. Get started with SQS in minutes using the AWS console, 
Command Line Interface or SDK of your choice, and three simple commands. 

SQS offers two types of message queues. Standard queues offer maximum 
throughput, best-effort ordering, and at-least-once delivery. SQS FIFO queues 
are designed to guarantee that messages are processed exactly once, in the 
exact order that they are sent. 

Amazon SNS 

Amazon Simple Notiﬁcation Service (Amazon SNS) is a highly available, 
durable, secure, fully managed pub/sub messaging service that enables you to 
decouple microservices, distributed systems, and serverless applications. 
Amazon SNS provides topics for high-throughput, push-based, many-to-many 
messaging. Using Amazon SNS topics, your publisher systems can fan out 
messages to a large number of subscriber endpoints for parallel processing, 
including Amazon SQS queues, AWS Lambda functions, and HTTP/S 

Page 15 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

webhooks. Additionally, SNS can be used to fan out notifications to end users 
using mobile push, SMS, and email.  

Amazon SWF 

Amazon Simple Workﬂow (Amazon SWF) helps developers build, run, and 
scale background jobs that have parallel or sequential steps. You can think of 
Amazon SWF as a fully-managed state tracker and task coordinator in the 
cloud. If your application’s steps take more than 500 milliseconds to complete, 
you need to track the state of processing. If you need to recover or retry if a 
task fails, Amazon SWF can help you. 

AR and VR 

Amazon Sumerian 

Amazon Sumerian lets you create and run virtual reality (VR), augmented 
reality (AR), and 3D applications quickly and easily without requiring any 
specialized programming or 3D graphics expertise. With Sumerian, you can 
build highly immersive and interactive scenes that run on popular hardware 
such as Oculus Go, Oculus Rift, HTC Vive, HTC Vive Pro, Google Daydream, 
and Lenovo Mirage as well as Android and iOS mobile devices. For example, 
you can build a virtual classroom that lets you train new employees around the 
world, or you can build a virtual environment that enables people to tour a 
building remotely. Sumerian makes it easy to create all the building blocks 
needed to build highly immersive and interactive 3D experiences including 
adding objects (e.g. characters, furniture, and landscape), and designing, 
animating, and scripting environments. Sumerian does not require specialized 
expertise and you can design scenes directly from your browser. 

AWS Cost Management 

AWS Cost Explorer 

AWS Cost Explorer has an easy-to-use interface that lets you visualize, 
understand, and manage your AWS costs and usage over time. Get started 
quickly by creating custom reports (including charts and tabular data) that 
analyze cost and usage data, both at a high level (e.g., total costs and usage 
across all accounts) and for highly-specific requests (e.g., m2.2xlarge costs 
within account Y that are tagged “project: secretProject”). 

Page 16 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

AWS Budgets 

AWS Budgets gives you the ability to set custom budgets that alert you when 
your costs or usage exceed (or are forecasted to exceed) your budgeted 
amount. You can also use AWS Budgets to set RI utilization or coverage 
targets and receive alerts when your utilization drops below the threshold you 
define. RI alerts support Amazon EC2, Amazon RDS, Amazon Redshift, and 
Amazon ElastiCache reservations. 

Budgets can be tracked at the monthly, quarterly, or yearly level, and you can 
customize the start and end dates. You can further refine your budget to track 
costs associated with multiple dimensions, such as AWS service, linked 
account, tag, and others. Budget alerts can be sent via email and/or Amazon 
Simple Notification Service (SNS) topic. 

Budgets can be created and tracked from the AWS Budgets dashboard or via 
the Budgets API. 

AWS Cost & Usage Report 

The AWS Cost & Usage Report is a single location for accessing 
comprehensive information about your AWS costs and usage. 

The AWS Cost & Usage Report lists AWS usage for each service category 
used by an account and its IAM users in hourly or daily line items, as well as 
any tags that you have activated for cost allocation purposes. You can also 
customize the AWS Cost & Usage Report to aggregate your usage data to the 
daily or monthly level. 

Reserved Instance (RI) Reporting 

AWS provides a number of RI-specific cost management solutions out-of-the-
box to help you better understand and manage your RIs. Using the RI 
Utilization and Coverage reports available in AWS Cost Explorer, you can 
visualize your RI data at an aggregate level or inspect a particular RI 
subscription. To access the most detailed RI information available, you can 
leverage the AWS Cost & Usage Report. You can also set a custom RI 
utilization target via AWS Budgets and receive alerts when your utilization drops 
below the threshold you define. 

Page 17 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Blockchain 

Amazon Managed Blockchain 

Amazon Managed Blockchain is a fully managed service that makes it easy to 
create and manage scalable blockchain networks using the popular open 
source frameworks Hyperledger Fabric and Ethereum. 

Blockchain makes it possible to build applications where multiple parties can 
execute transactions without the need for a trusted, central authority. Today, 
building a scalable blockchain network with existing technologies is complex to 
set up and hard to manage. To create a blockchain network, each network 
member needs to manually provision hardware, install software, create and 
manage certificates for access control, and configure networking components. 
Once the blockchain network is running, you need to continuously monitor the 
infrastructure and adapt to changes, such as an increase in transaction 
requests, or new members joining or leaving the network. 

Amazon Managed Blockchain is a fully managed service that allows you to set 
up and manage a scalable blockchain network with just a few clicks. Amazon 
Managed Blockchain eliminates the overhead required to create the network, 
and automatically scales to meet the demands of thousands of applications 
running millions of transactions. Once your network is up and running, Managed 
Blockchain makes it easy to manage and maintain your blockchain network. It 
manages your certificates, lets you easily invite new members to join the 
network, and tracks operational metrics such as usage of compute, memory, 
and storage resources. In addition, Managed Blockchain can replicate an 
immutable copy of your blockchain network activity into Amazon Quantum 
Ledger Database (QLDB), a fully managed ledger database. This allows you to 
easily analyze the network activity outside the network and gain insights into 
trends. 

Business Applications 

Alexa for Business 

Alexa for Business is a service that enables organizations and employees to 
use Alexa to get more work done. With Alexa for Business, employees can use 
Alexa as their intelligent assistant to be more productive in meeting rooms, at 
their desks, and even with the Alexa devices they already have at home. 

Page 18 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Amazon WorkDocs 

Amazon WorkDocs is a fully managed, secure enterprise storage and sharing 
service with strong administrative controls and feedback capabilities that 
improve user productivity. 

Users can comment on ﬁles, send them to others for feedback, and upload new 
versions without having to resort to emailing multiple versions of their ﬁles as 
attachments. Users can take advantage of these capabilities wherever they are, 
using the device of their choice, including PCs, Macs, tablets, and phones. 
Amazon WorkDocs oﬀers IT administrators the option of integrating with 
existing corporate directories, ﬂexible sharing policies and control of the location 
where data is stored. You can get started using Amazon WorkDocs with a 30-
day free trial providing 1 TB of storage per user for up to 50 users. 

Amazon WorkMail 

Amazon WorkMail is a secure, managed business email and calendar service 
with support for existing desktop and mobile email client applications. Amazon 
WorkMail gives users the ability to seamlessly access their email, contacts, and 
calendars using the client application of their choice, including Microsoft 
Outlook, native iOS and Android email applications, any client application 
supporting the IMAP protocol, or directly through a web browser. You can 
integrate Amazon WorkMail with your existing corporate directory, use email 
journaling to meet compliance requirements, and control both the keys that 
encrypt your data and the location in which your data is stored. You can also 
set up interoperability with Microsoft Exchange Server, and programmatically 
manage users, groups, and resources using the Amazon WorkMail SDK. 

Amazon Chime 

Amazon Chime is a communications service that transforms online meetings 
with a secure, easy-to-use application that you can trust. Amazon Chime works 
seamlessly across your devices so that you can stay connected. You can use 
Amazon Chime for online meetings, video conferencing, calls, chat, and to 
share content, both inside and outside your organization.  

Amazon Chime works with Alexa for Business, which means you can use Alexa 
to start your meetings with your voice. Alexa can start your video meetings in 
large conference rooms, and automatically dial into online meetings in smaller 
huddle rooms and from your desk. 

Page 19 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Compute 

Amazon EC2 

Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides 
secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud. It is designed to make web-
scale computing easier for developers. 

The Amazon EC2 simple web service interface allows you to obtain and 
conﬁgure capacity with minimal friction. It provides you with complete control of 
your computing resources and lets you run on Amazon’s proven computing 
environment. Amazon EC2 reduces the time required to obtain and boot new 
server instances (called Amazon EC2 instances) to minutes, allowing you to 
quickly scale capacity, both up and down, as your computing requirements 
change. Amazon EC2 changes the economics of computing by allowing you to 
pay only for capacity that you actually use. Amazon EC2 provides developers 
and system administrators the tools to build failure resilient applications and 
isolate themselves from common failure scenarios. 

Instance types 

Amazon EC2 passes on to you the ﬁnancial beneﬁts of Amazon’s scale. You 
pay a very low rate for the compute capacity you actually consume. See 
Amazon EC2 Instance Purchasing Options for a more detailed description. 

•  On-Demand Instances—With On-Demand instances, you pay for 

compute capacity by the hour with no long-term commitments. You can 
increase or decrease your compute capacity depending on the demands 
of your application and only pay the speciﬁed hourly rate for the 
instances you use. The    use of On-Demand instances frees you from 
the costs and complexities of planning, purchasing, and maintaining 
hardware and transforms what are commonly large ﬁxed costs into much 
smaller variable costs. On-Demand instances also remove the need to 
buy “safety net” capacity to handle periodic traﬃc spikes. 

•  Reserved Instances—Reserved Instances provide you with a signiﬁcant 

discount (up to 75%) compared to On-Demand instance pricing. You 
have the ﬂexibility to change families, operating system types, and 
tenancies while beneﬁtting from Reserved Instance pricing when you use 
Convertible Reserved Instances. 

Page 20 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

•  Spot Instances—Spot Instances are available at up to a 90% discount 
compared to On-Demand prices and let you take advantage of unused 
EC2 capacity in the AWS Cloud. You can signiﬁcantly reduce the cost of 
running your applications, grow your application’s compute capacity and 
throughput for the same budget, and enable new types of cloud 
computing applications. 

Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling 

Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling helps you maintain application availability and allows 
you to automatically add or remove EC2 instances according to conditions you 
define. You can use the fleet management features of Amazon EC2 Auto 
Scaling to maintain the health and availability of your fleet. You can also use the 
dynamic and predictive scaling features of Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling to add or 
remove EC2 instances. Dynamic scaling responds to changing demand and 
predictive scaling automatically schedules the right number of EC2 instances 
based on predicted demand. Dynamic scaling and predictive scaling can be 
used together to scale faster.  

Amazon Elastic Container Registry 

Amazon Elastic Container Registry (Amazon ECR) is a fully-managed Docker 
container registry that makes it easy for developers to store, manage, and 
deploy Docker container images. Amazon ECR is integrated with Amazon 
Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS), simplifying your development to 
production workﬂow. Amazon ECR eliminates the need to operate your own 
container repositories or worry about scaling the underlying infrastructure. 
Amazon ECR hosts your images in a highly available and scalable architecture, 
allowing you to reliably deploy containers for your applications. Integration with 
AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) provides resource-level control of 
each repository. With Amazon ECR, there are no upfront fees or commitments. 
You pay only for the amount of data you store in your repositories and data 
transferred to the Internet. 

Amazon Elastic Container Service 

Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) is a highly scalable, high-
performance container orchestration service that supports Docker containers 
and allows you to easily run and scale containerized applications on AWS. 
Amazon ECS eliminates the need for you to install and operate your own 

Page 21 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

container orchestration software, manage and scale a cluster of virtual 
machines, or schedule containers on those virtual machines. 

With simple API calls, you can launch and stop Docker-enabled applications, 
query the complete state of your application, and access many familiar features 
such as IAM roles, security groups, load balancers, Amazon CloudWatch 
Events, AWS CloudFormation templates, and AWS CloudTrail logs. 

Amazon Elastic Container Service for Kubernetes 

Amazon Elastic Container Service for Kubernetes (Amazon EKS) makes it easy 
to deploy, manage, and scale containerized applications using Kubernetes on 
AWS. 

Amazon EKS runs the Kubernetes management infrastructure for you across 
multiple AWS availability zones to eliminate a single point of failure. Amazon 
EKS is certified Kubernetes conformant so you can use existing tooling and 
plugins from partners and the Kubernetes community. Applications running on 
any standard Kubernetes environment are fully compatible and can be easily 
migrated to Amazon EKS. 

Amazon Lightsail 

Amazon Lightsail is designed to be the easiest way to launch and manage a 
virtual private server with AWS. Lightsail plans include everything you need to 
jumpstart your project – a virtual machine, SSD- based storage, data transfer, 
DNS management, and a static IP address – for a low, predictable price. 

AWS Batch 

AWS Batch enables developers, scientists, and engineers to easily and 
eﬃciently run hundreds of thousands of batch computing jobs on AWS. AWS 
Batch dynamically provisions the optimal quantity and type of compute 
resources (e.g., CPU or memory-optimized instances) based on the volume and 
speciﬁc resource requirements of the batch jobs submitted. With AWS Batch, 
there is no need to install and manage batch computing software or server 
clusters that you use to run your jobs, allowing you to focus on analyzing results 
and solving problems. AWS Batch plans, schedules, and executes your batch 
computing workloads across the full range of AWS compute services and 
features, such as Amazon EC2 and Spot Instances. 

Page 22 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

AWS Elastic Beanstalk 

AWS Elastic Beanstalk is an easy-to-use service for deploying and scaling web 
applications and services developed with Java, .NET, PHP, Node.js, Python, 
Ruby, Go, and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache, Nginx, Passenger, 
and Internet Information Services (IIS). 

You can simply upload your code, and AWS Elastic Beanstalk automatically 
handles the deployment, from capacity provisioning, load balancing, and auto 
scaling to application health monitoring. At the same time, you retain full control 
over the AWS resources powering your application and can access the 
underlying resources at any time. 

AWS Fargate 

AWS Fargate is a compute engine for Amazon ECS that allows you to 
run containers without having to manage servers or clusters. With AWS 
Fargate, you no longer have to provision, configure, and scale clusters of virtual 
machines to run containers. This removes the need to choose server types, 
decide when to scale your clusters, or optimize cluster packing. AWS Fargate 
removes the need for you to interact with or think about servers or clusters. 
Fargate lets you focus on designing and building your applications instead of 
managing the infrastructure that runs them. 

Amazon ECS has two modes: Fargate launch type and EC2 launch type. With 
Fargate launch type, all you have to do is package your application in 
containers, specify the CPU and memory requirements, define networking and 
IAM policies, and launch the application. EC2 launch type allows you to have 
server-level, more granular control over the infrastructure that runs your 
container applications. With EC2 launch type, you can use Amazon ECS to 
manage a cluster of servers and schedule placement of containers on the 
servers. Amazon ECS keeps track of all the CPU, memory and other resources 
in your cluster, and also finds the best server for a container to run on based on 
your specified resource requirements. You are responsible for provisioning, 
patching, and scaling clusters of servers. You can decide which type of server 
to use, which applications and how many containers to run in a cluster to 
optimize utilization, and when you should add or remove servers from a cluster. 
EC2 launch type gives you more control of your server clusters and provides a 
broader range of customization options, which might be required to support 
some specific applications or possible compliance and government 
requirements. 

Page 23 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

AWS Lambda 

AWS Lambda lets you run code without provisioning or managing servers. You 
pay only for the compute time you consume—there is no charge when your 
code is not running. With Lambda, you can run code for virtually any type of 
application or backend service—all with zero administration. Just upload your 
code, and Lambda takes care of everything required to run and scale your code 
with high availability. You can set up your code to automatically trigger from 
other AWS services, or you can call it directly from any web or mobile app. 

AWS Serverless Application Repository 

The AWS Serverless Application Repository enables you to quickly deploy code 
samples, components, and complete applications for common use cases such 
as web and mobile back-ends, event and data processing, logging, monitoring, 
IoT, and more. Each application is packaged with an AWS Serverless 
Application Model (SAM) template that defines the AWS resources used. 
Publicly shared applications also include a link to the application’s source code. 
There is no additional charge to use the Serverless Application Repository - you 
only pay for the AWS resources used in the applications you deploy. 

You can also use the Serverless Application Repository to publish your own 
applications and share them within your team, across your organization, or with 
the community at large. To share an application you've built, publish it to the 
AWS Serverless Application Repository. 

AWS Outposts 

AWS Outposts bring native AWS services, infrastructure, and operating models 
to virtually any data center, co-location space, or on-premises facility. You can 
use the same APIs, the same tools, the same hardware, and the same 
functionality across on-premises and the cloud to deliver a truly consistent 
hybrid experience. Outposts can be used to support workloads that need to 
remain on-premises due to low latency or local data processing needs. 

AWS Outposts come in two variants: 1) VMware Cloud on AWS Outposts 
allows you to use the same VMware control plane and APIs you use to run your 
infrastructure, 2) AWS native variant of AWS Outposts allows you to use the 
same exact APIs and control plane you use to run in the AWS cloud, but on-
premises. 

Page 24 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

AWS Outposts infrastructure is fully managed, maintained, and supported by 
AWS to deliver access to the latest AWS services. Getting started is easy, you 
simply log into the AWS Management Console to order your Outposts servers, 
choosing from a wide range of compute and storage options. You can order one 
or more servers, or quarter, half, and full rack units. 

VMware Cloud on AWS 

VMware Cloud on AWS is an integrated cloud offering jointly developed by 
AWS and VMware delivering a highly scalable, secure and innovative service 
that allows organizations to seamlessly migrate and extend their on-premises 
VMware vSphere-based environments to the AWS Cloud running on next-
generation Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) bare metal 
infrastructure. VMware Cloud on AWS is ideal for enterprise IT infrastructure 
and operations organizations looking to migrate their on-premises vSphere-
based workloads to the public cloud, consolidate and extend their data center 
capacities, and optimize, simplify and modernize their disaster recovery 
solutions. VMware Cloud on AWS is delivered, sold, and supported globally by 
VMware and its partners with availability in the following AWS Regions: US 
East (N. Virginia), US West (Oregon), Asia Pacific (Sydney), Asia Pacific 
(Tokyo), Europe (Frankfurt), Europe (Ireland), and Europe (London).  With each 
release, VMware Cloud on AWS availability will expand into additional global 
regions. 

VMware Cloud on AWS brings the broad, diverse and rich innovations of AWS 
services natively to the enterprise applications running on VMware's compute, 
storage and network virtualization platforms. This allows organizations to easily 
and rapidly add new innovations to their enterprise applications by natively 
integrating AWS infrastructure and platform capabilities such as AWS Lambda, 
Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS), Amazon S3, Elastic Load Balancing, 
Amazon RDS, Amazon DynamoDB, Amazon Kinesis and Amazon Redshift, 
among many others. 

With VMware Cloud on AWS, organizations can simplify their Hybrid IT 
operations by using the same VMware Cloud Foundation technologies including 
vSphere, vSAN, NSX, and vCenter Server across their on-premises data 
centers and on the AWS Cloud without having to purchase any new or custom 
hardware, rewrite applications, or modify their operating models. The service 
automatically provisions infrastructure and provides full VM compatibility and 
workload portability between your on-premises environments and the AWS 

Page 25 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Cloud. With VMware Cloud on AWS, you can leverage AWS's breadth of 
services, including compute, databases, analytics, Internet of Things (IoT), 
security, mobile, deployment, application services, and more. 

Customer Engagement 

Amazon Connect 

Amazon Connect is a self-service, cloud-based contact center service that 
makes it easy for any business to deliver better customer service at lower cost. 
Amazon Connect is based on the same contact center technology used by 
Amazon customer service associates around the world to power millions of 
customer conversations. The self-service graphical interface in Amazon 
Connect makes it easy for non-technical users to design contact flows, manage 
agents, and track performance metrics – no specialized skills required. There 
are no up-front payments or long-term commitments and no infrastructure to 
manage with Amazon Connect; customers pay by the minute for Amazon 
Connect usage plus any associated telephony services. 

Amazon SES 

Amazon Simple Email Service (Amazon SES) is a cloud-based email sending 
service designed to help digital marketers and application developers send 
marketing, notification, and transactional emails. It is a reliable, cost-effective 
service for businesses of all sizes that use email to keep in contact with their 
customers. 

You can use our SMTP interface or one of the AWS SDKs to integrate Amazon 
SES directly into your existing applications. You can also integrate the email 
sending capabilities of Amazon SES into the software you already use, such as 
ticketing systems and email clients. 

See also Amazon Pinpoint. 

Database 

Amazon Aurora 

Amazon Aurora is a MySQL and PostgreSQL compatible relational database 
engine that combines the speed and availability of high-end commercial 
databases with the simplicity and cost-eﬀectiveness of open source databases.  

Page 26 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Amazon Aurora is up to five times faster than standard MySQL databases and 
three times faster than standard PostgreSQL databases. It provides the 
security, availability, and reliability of commercial databases at 1/10th the cost. 
Amazon Aurora is fully managed by Amazon Relational Database Service 
(RDS), which automates time-consuming administration tasks like hardware 
provisioning, database setup, patching, and backups. 

Amazon Aurora features a distributed, fault-tolerant, self-healing storage 
system that auto-scales up to 64TB per database instance. It delivers high 
performance and availability with up to 15 low-latency read replicas, point-in-
time recovery, continuous backup to Amazon S3, and replication across three 
Availability Zones (AZs). 

Amazon RDS 

Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) makes it easy to set up, 
operate, and scale a relational database in the cloud. It provides cost-efficient 
and resizable capacity while automating time-consuming administration tasks 
such as hardware provisioning, database setup, patching and backups. It frees 
you to focus on your applications so you can give them the fast performance, 
high availability, security and compatibility they need. 

Amazon RDS is available on several database instance types - optimized for 
memory, performance or I/O - and provides you with six familiar database 
engines to choose from, including Amazon 
Aurora, PostgreSQL, MySQL, MariaDB, Oracle Database, and SQL Server. 
You can use the AWS Database Migration Service to easily migrate or replicate 
your existing databases to Amazon RDS. 

Amazon RDS on VMware 

Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS) on VMware lets you deploy 
managed databases in on-premises VMware environments using the Amazon 
RDS technology enjoyed by hundreds of thousands of AWS customers. 
Amazon RDS provides cost-efficient and resizable capacity while automating 
time-consuming administration tasks including hardware provisioning, database 
setup, patching, and backups, freeing you to focus on your applications. RDS 
on VMware brings these same benefits to your on-premises deployments, 
making it easy to set up, operate, and scale databases in VMware vSphere 
private data centers, or to migrate them to AWS. 

Page 27 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

RDS on VMware allows you to utilize the same simple interface for managing 
databases in on-premises VMware environments as you would use in AWS. 
You can easily replicate RDS on VMware databases to RDS instances in AWS, 
enabling low-cost hybrid deployments for disaster recovery, read replica 
bursting, and optional long-term backup retention in Amazon Simple Storage 
Service (Amazon S3). 

Amazon DynamoDB 

Amazon DynamoDB is a key-value and document database that delivers single-
digit millisecond performance at any scale. It's a fully managed, multiregion, 
multimaster database with built-in security, backup and restore, and in-memory 
caching for internet-scale applications. DynamoDB can handle more than 10 
trillion requests per day and support peaks of more than 20 million requests per 
second. 

Many of the world's fastest growing businesses such as Lyft, Airbnb, and Redfin 
as well as enterprises such as Samsung, Toyota, and Capital One depend on 
the scale and performance of DynamoDB to support their mission-critical 
workloads. 

More than 100,000 AWS customers have chosen DynamoDB as their key-value 
and document database for mobile, web, gaming, ad tech, IoT, and other 
applications that need low-latency data access at any scale. Create a new table 
for your application and let DynamoDB handle the rest. 

Amazon ElastiCache 

Amazon ElastiCache is a web service that makes it easy to deploy, operate, 
and scale an in-memory cache in the cloud. The service improves the 
performance of web applications by allowing you to retrieve information from 
fast, managed, in-memory caches, instead of relying entirely on slower disk-
based databases. 

Amazon ElastiCache supports two open-source in-memory caching engines: 

Page 28 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

•  Redis - a fast, open source, in-memory data store and cache. Amazon 

ElastiCache for Redis is a Redis- compatible in-memory service that 
delivers the ease-of-use and power of Redis along with the availability, 
reliability, and performance suitable for the most demanding applications. 
Both single- node and up to 15-shard clusters are available, enabling 
scalability to up to 3.55 TiB of in-memory data. ElastiCache for Redis is 
fully managed, scalable, and secure. This makes it an ideal candidate to 
power high-performance use cases such as web, mobile apps, gaming, 
ad-tech, and IoT. 

•  Memcached - a widely adopted memory object caching system. 

ElastiCache for Memcached is protocol compliant with Memcached, so 
popular tools that you use today with existing Memcached environments 
will work seamlessly with the service. 

Amazon Neptune 

Amazon Neptune is a fast, reliable, fully-managed graph database service that 
makes it easy to build and run applications that work with highly connected 
datasets. The core of Amazon Neptune is a purpose-built, high-performance 
graph database engine optimized for storing billions of relationships and 
querying the graph with milliseconds latency. Amazon Neptune supports 
popular graph models Property Graph and W3C's RDF, and their respective 
query languages Apache TinkerPop Gremlin and SPARQL, allowing you to 
easily build queries that efficiently navigate highly connected datasets. Neptune 
powers graph use cases such as recommendation engines, fraud detection, 
knowledge graphs, drug discovery, and network security. 

Amazon Neptune is highly available, with read replicas, point-in-time recovery, 
continuous backup to Amazon S3, and replication across Availability Zones. 
Neptune is secure with support for encryption at rest. Neptune is fully-managed, 
so you no longer need to worry about database management tasks such as 
hardware provisioning, software patching, setup, configuration, or backups. 

Amazon Quantum Ledger Database (QLDB) 

Amazon QLDB is a fully managed ledger database that provides a transparent, 
immutable, and cryptographically verifiable transaction log owned by a central 
trusted authority. Amazon QLDB tracks each and every application data change 
and maintains a complete and verifiable history of changes over time. 

Page 29 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Ledgers are typically used to record a history of economic and financial activity 
in an organization. Many organizations build applications with ledger-like 
functionality because they want to maintain an accurate history of their 
applications' data, for example, tracking the history of credits and debits in 
banking transactions, verifying the data lineage of an insurance claim, or tracing 
movement of an item in a supply chain network. Ledger applications are often 
implemented using custom audit tables or audit trails created in relational 
databases. However, building audit functionality with relational databases is 
time-consuming and prone to human error. It requires custom development, 
and since relational databases are not inherently immutable, any unintended 
changes to the data are hard to track and verify. Alternatively, blockchain 
frameworks, such as Hyperledger Fabric and Ethereum, can also be used as a 
ledger. However, this adds complexity as you need to set-up an entire 
blockchain network with multiple nodes, manage its infrastructure, and require 
the nodes to validate each transaction before it can be added to the ledger. 

Amazon QLDB is a new class of database that eliminates the need to engage in 
the complex development effort of building your own ledger-like applications. 
With QLDB, your data’s change history is immutable – it cannot be altered or 
deleted – and using cryptography, you can easily verify that there have been no 
unintended modifications to your application’s data. QLDB uses an immutable 
transactional log, known as a journal, that tracks each application data change 
and maintains a complete and verifiable history of changes over time. QLDB is 
easy to use because it provides developers with a familiar SQL-like API, a 
flexible document data model, and full support for transactions. QLDB is also 
serverless, so it automatically scales to support the demands of your 
application. There are no servers to manage and no read or write limits to 
configure. With QLDB, you only pay for what you use. 

Amazon Timestream 

Amazon Timestream is a fast, scalable, fully managed time series database 
service for IoT and operational applications that makes it easy to store and 
analyze trillions of events per day at 1/10th the cost of relational databases. 
Driven by the rise of IoT devices, IT systems, and smart industrial machines, 
time-series data — data that measures how things change over time — is one 
of the fastest growing data types. Time-series data has specific characteristics 
such as typically arriving in time order form, data is append-only, and queries 
are always over a time interval. While relational databases can store this data, 
they are inefficient at processing this data as they lack optimizations such as 

Page 30 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

storing and retrieving data by time intervals. Timestream is a purpose-built time 
series database that efficiently stores and processes this data by time intervals. 
With Timestream, you can easily store and analyze log data for DevOps, sensor 
data for IoT applications, and industrial telemetry data for equipment 
maintenance. As your data grows over time, Timestream’s adaptive query 
processing engine understands its location and format, making your data 
simpler and faster to analyze. Timestream also automates rollups, retention, 
tiering, and compression of data, so you can manage your data at the lowest 
possible cost. Timestream is serverless, so there are no servers to manage. It 
manages time-consuming tasks such as server provisioning, software patching, 
setup, configuration, or data retention and tiering, freeing you to focus on 
building your applications. 

Amazon DocumentDB 
Amazon DocumentDB (with MongoDB compatibility) is a fast, scalable, highly 
available, and fully managed document database service that supports 
MongoDB workloads. 
 
Amazon DocumentDB is designed from the ground-up to give you the 
performance, scalability, and availability you need when operating mission-
critical MongoDB workloads at scale. Amazon DocumentDB implements the 
Apache 2.0 open source MongoDB 3.6 API by emulating the responses that a 
MongoDB client expects from a MongoDB server, allowing you to use your 
existing MongoDB drivers and tools with Amazon DocumentDB. 

Desktop and App Streaming 

Amazon WorkSpaces 

Amazon WorkSpaces is a fully managed, secure cloud desktop service. You 
can use Amazon WorkSpaces to provision either Windows or Linux desktops in 
just a few minutes and quickly scale to provide thousands of desktops to 
workers across the globe. You can pay either monthly or hourly, just for the 
WorkSpaces you launch, which helps you save money when compared to 
traditional desktops and on-premises VDI solutions. Amazon WorkSpaces helps 
you eliminate the complexity in managing hardware inventory, OS versions and 
patches, and Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI), which helps simplify your 
desktop delivery strategy. With Amazon WorkSpaces, your users get a fast, 
responsive desktop of their choice that they can access anywhere, anytime, 
from any supported device. 

Page 31 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Amazon AppStream 2.0 

Amazon AppStream 2.0 is a fully managed application streaming service. You 
centrally manage your desktop applications on AppStream 2.0 and securely 
deliver them to any computer. You can easily scale to any number of users 
across the globe without acquiring, provisioning, and operating hardware or 
infrastructure. AppStream 2.0 is built on AWS, so you benefit from a data center 
and network architecture designed for the most security-sensitive organizations. 
Each user has a fluid and responsive experience with your applications, 
including GPU-intensive 3D design and engineering ones, because your 
applications run on virtual machines (VMs) optimized for specific use cases and 
each streaming session automatically adjusts to network conditions. 

Enterprises can use AppStream 2.0 to simplify application delivery and 
complete their migration to the cloud. Educational institutions can provide every 
student access to the applications they need for class on any 
computer. Software vendors can use AppStream 2.0 to deliver trials, demos, 
and training for their applications with no downloads or installations. They can 
also develop a full software-as-a-service (SaaS) solution without rewriting their 
application. 

Developer Tools 

AWS CodeCommit 

AWS CodeCommit is a fully-managed source control service that hosts secure 
Git-based repositories. It makes it easy for teams to collaborate on code in a 
secure and highly scalable ecosystem. CodeCommit eliminates the need to 
operate your own source control system or worry about scaling its 
infrastructure. You can use CodeCommit to securely store anything from source 
code to binaries, and it works seamlessly with your existing Git tools. 

AWS CodeBuild 

AWS CodeBuild is a fully managed build service that compiles source code, 
runs tests, and produces software packages that are ready to deploy. With 
CodeBuild, you don’t need to provision, manage, and scale your own build 
servers. CodeBuild scales continuously and processes multiple builds 
concurrently, so your builds are not left waiting in a queue. You can get started 
quickly by using prepackaged build environments, or you can create custom 
build environments that use your own build tools. 

Page 32 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

AWS CodeDeploy 

AWS CodeDeploy is a service that automates code deployments to any 
instance, including EC2 instances and instances running on premises. AWS 
CodeDeploy makes it easier for you to rapidly release new features, helps you 
avoid downtime during application deployment, and handles the complexity of 
updating your applications. You can use AWS CodeDeploy to automate 
software deployments, eliminating the need for error-prone manual operations. 
The service scales with your infrastructure so you can easily deploy to one 
instance or thousands. 

AWS CodePipeline 

AWS CodePipeline is a fully managed continuous delivery service that helps 
you automate your release pipelines for fast and reliable application and 
infrastructure updates. CodePipeline automates the build, test, and deploy 
phases of your release process every time there is a code change, based on 
the release model you define. This enables you to rapidly and reliably deliver 
features and updates. You can easily integrate AWS CodePipeline with third-
party services such as GitHub or with your own custom plugin. With AWS 
CodePipeline, you only pay for what you use. There are no upfront fees or long-
term commitments. 

AWS CodeStar 

AWS CodeStar enables you to quickly develop, build, and deploy applications 
on AWS. AWS CodeStar provides a unified user interface, enabling you to 
easily manage your software development activities in one place. With AWS 
CodeStar, you can set up your entire continuous delivery toolchain in minutes, 
allowing you to start releasing code faster. AWS CodeStar makes it easy for 
your whole team to work together securely, allowing you to easily manage 
access and add owners, contributors, and viewers to your projects. Each AWS 
CodeStar project comes with a project management dashboard, including an 
integrated issue tracking capability powered by Atlassian JIRA Software. With 
the AWS CodeStar project dashboard, you can easily track progress across 
your entire software development process, from your backlog of work items to 
teams’ recent code deployments. For more information, see AWS CodeStar 
features. 

Page 33 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Amazon Corretto 

Amazon Corretto is a no-cost, multiplatform, production-ready distribution of the 
Open Java Development Kit (OpenJDK). Corretto comes with long-term support 
that will include performance enhancements and security fixes. Amazon runs 
Corretto internally on thousands of production services and Corretto is certified 
as compatible with the Java SE standard. With Corretto, you can develop and 
run Java applications on popular operating systems, including Amazon Linux 2, 
Windows, and macOS. Amazon Corretto 8 is in Preview. 

AWS Cloud9 

AWS Cloud9 is a cloud-based integrated development environment (IDE) that 
lets you write, run, and debug your code with just a browser. It includes a code 
editor, debugger, and terminal. Cloud9 comes prepackaged with essential tools 
for popular programming languages, including JavaScript, Python, PHP, and 
more, so you don’t need to install files or configure your development machine 
to start new projects. Since your Cloud9 IDE is cloud-based, you can work on 
your projects from your office, home, or anywhere using an internet-connected 
machine. Cloud9 also provides a seamless experience for developing 
serverless applications enabling you to easily define resources, debug, and 
switch between local and remote execution of serverless applications. With 
Cloud9, you can quickly share your development environment with your team, 
enabling you to pair program and track each other's inputs in real time. 

AWS X-Ray 

AWS X-Ray helps developers analyze and debug distributed applications in 
production or under development, such as those built using a microservices 
architecture. With X-Ray, you can understand how your application and its 
underlying services are performing so you can identify and troubleshoot the root 
cause of performance issues and errors. X-Ray provides an end-to-end view of 
requests as they travel through your application, and shows a map of your 
application’s underlying components. You can use X- Ray to analyze both 
applications in development and in production, from simple three-tier 
applications to complex microservices applications consisting of thousands of 
services. 

Page 34 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Game Tech 

Amazon GameLift 

Amazon GameLift is a managed service for deploying, operating, and scaling 
dedicated game servers for session-based multiplayer games. Amazon 
GameLift makes it easy to manage server infrastructure, scale capacity to lower 
latency and cost, match players into available game sessions, and defend from 
distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks. You pay for the compute 
resources and bandwidth your games actually use, without monthly or annual 
contracts. 

Amazon Lumberyard 

Amazon Lumberyard is a free, cross-platform, 3D game engine for you to 
create the highest-quality games, connect your games to the vast compute and 
storage of the AWS Cloud, and engage fans on Twitch. By starting game 
projects with Lumberyard, you can spend more of your time creating great 
gameplay and building communities of fans, and less time on the 
undiﬀerentiated heavy lifting of building a game engine and managing server 
infrastructure. 

Internet of Things (IoT) 

AWS IoT Core 

AWS IoT Core is a managed cloud service that lets connected devices easily 
and securely interact with cloud applications and other devices. AWS IoT Core 
can support billions of devices and trillions of messages, and can process and 
route those messages to AWS endpoints and to other devices reliably and 
securely. With AWS IoT Core, your applications can keep track of and 
communicate with all your devices, all the time, even when they aren’t 
connected. 

AWS IoT Core makes it easy to use AWS services like AWS Lambda, Amazon 
Kinesis, Amazon S3, Amazon SageMaker, Amazon DynamoDB, Amazon 
CloudWatch, AWS CloudTrail, and Amazon QuickSight to build Internet of 
Things (IoT) applications that gather, process, analyze and act on data 
generated by connected devices, without having to manage any infrastructure. 

Page 35 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Amazon FreeRTOS 

Amazon FreeRTOS (a:FreeRTOS) is an operating system for microcontrollers 
that makes small, low-power edge devices easy to program, deploy, secure, 
connect, and manage. Amazon FreeRTOS extends the FreeRTOS kernel, a 
popular open source operating system for microcontrollers, with software 
libraries that make it easy to securely connect your small, low-power devices to 
AWS cloud services like AWS IoT Core or to more powerful edge devices 
running AWS IoT Greengrass. 

A microcontroller (MCU) is a single chip containing a simple processor that can 
be found in many devices, including appliances, sensors, fitness trackers, 
industrial automation, and automobiles. Many of these small devices could 
benefit from connecting to the cloud or locally to other devices. For example, 
smart electricity meters need to connect to the cloud to report on usage, and 
building security systems need to communicate locally so that a door will unlock 
when you badge in. Microcontrollers have limited compute power and memory 
capacity and typically perform simple, functional tasks. Microcontrollers 
frequently run operating systems that do not have built-in functionality to 
connect to local networks or the cloud, making IoT applications a challenge. 
Amazon FreeRTOS helps solve this problem by providing both the core 
operating system (to run the edge device) as well as software libraries that 
make it easy to securely connect to the cloud (or other edge devices) so you 
can collect data from them for IoT applications and take action. 

AWS IoT Greengrass 

AWS IoT Greengrass seamlessly extends AWS to devices so they can act 
locally on the data they generate, while still using the cloud for management, 
analytics, and durable storage. With AWS IoT Greengrass, connected devices 
can run AWS Lambda functions, execute predictions based on machine 
learning models, keep device data in sync, and communicate with other devices 
securely – even when not connected to the Internet. 

With AWS IoT Greengrass, you can use familiar languages and programming 
models to create and test your device software in the cloud, and then deploy it 
to your devices. AWS IoT Greengrass can be programmed to ﬁlter device data 
and only transmit necessary information back to the cloud. You can also 
connect to third-party applications, on-premises software, and AWS services 
out-of-the-box with AWS IoT Greengrass Connectors. Connectors also 
jumpstart device onboarding with pre-built protocol adapter integrations and 

Page 36 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

allow you to streamline authentication via integration with AWS Secrets 
Manager. 

AWS IoT 1-Click 

AWS IoT 1-Click is a service that enables simple devices to trigger AWS 
Lambda functions that can execute an action. AWS IoT 1-Click supported 
devices enable you to easily perform actions such as notifying technical 
support, tracking assets, and replenishing goods or services. AWS IoT 1-Click 
supported devices are ready for use right out of the box and eliminate the need 
for writing your own firmware or configuring them for secure connectivity. AWS 
IoT 1-Click supported devices can be easily managed. You can easily create 
device groups and associate them with a Lambda function that executes your 
desired action when triggered. You can also track device health and activity 
with the pre-built reports. 

AWS IoT Analytics 

AWS IoT Analytics is a fully-managed service that makes it easy to run and 
operationalize sophisticated analytics on massive volumes of IoT data without 
having to worry about the cost and complexity typically required to build an IoT 
analytics platform. It is the easiest way to run analytics on IoT data and get 
insights to make better and more accurate decisions for IoT applications and 
machine learning use cases. 

IoT data is highly unstructured which makes it difficult to analyze with traditional 
analytics and business intelligence tools that are designed to process structured 
data. IoT data comes from devices that often record fairly noisy processes 
(such as temperature, motion, or sound). The data from these devices can 
frequently have significant gaps, corrupted messages, and false readings that 
must be cleaned up before analysis can occur. Also, IoT data is often only 
meaningful in the context of additional, third party data inputs. For example, to 
help farmers determine when to water their crops, vineyard irrigation systems 
often enrich moisture sensor data with rainfall data from the vineyard, allowing 
for more efficient water usage while maximizing harvest yield. 

AWS IoT Analytics automates each of the difficult steps that are required to 
analyze data from IoT devices. AWS IoT Analytics filters, transforms, and 
enriches IoT data before storing it in a time-series data store for analysis. You 
can setup the service to collect only the data you need from your devices, apply 
mathematical transforms to process the data, and enrich the data with device-

Page 37 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

specific metadata such as device type and location before storing the 
processed data. Then, you can analyze your data by running ad hoc or 
scheduled queries using the built-in SQL query engine, or perform more 
complex analytics and machine learning inference. AWS IoT Analytics makes it 
easy to get started with machine learning by including pre-built models for 
common IoT use cases. 

You can also use your own custom analysis, packaged in a container, to 
execute on AWS IoT Analytics. AWS IoT Analytics automates the execution of 
your custom analyses created in Jupyter Notebook or your own tools (such as 
Matlab, Octave, etc.) to be executed on your schedule. 

AWS IoT Analytics is a fully managed service that operationalizes analyses and 
scales automatically to support up to petabytes of IoT data. With AWS IoT 
Analytics, you can analyze data from millions of devices and build fast, 
responsive IoT applications without managing hardware or infrastructure. 

AWS IoT Button 

The AWS IoT Button is a programmable button based on the Amazon Dash 
Button hardware. This simple Wi-Fi device is easy to conﬁgure, and it’s 
designed for developers to get started with AWS IoT Core, AWS Lambda, 
Amazon DynamoDB, Amazon SNS, and many other Amazon Web Services 
without writing device-speciﬁc code. 

You can code the button's logic in the cloud to conﬁgure button clicks to count 
or track items, call or alert someone, start or stop something, order services, or 
even provide feedback. For example, you can click the button to unlock or start 
a car, open your garage door, call a cab, call your spouse or a customer service 
representative, track the use of common household chores, medications or 
products, or remotely control your home appliances. 

The button can be used as a remote control for Netﬂix, a switch for your Philips 
Hue light bulb, a check-in/check-out device for Airbnb guests, or a way to order 
your favorite pizza for delivery. You can integrate it with third-party APIs like 
Twitter, Facebook, Twilio, Slack or even your own company's applications. 
Connect it to things we haven’t even thought of yet. 

Page 38 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

AWS IoT Device Defender 

AWS IoT Device Defender is a fully managed service that helps you secure 
your fleet of IoT devices. AWS IoT Device Defender continuously audits your 
IoT configurations to make sure that they aren’t deviating from security best 
practices. A configuration is a set of technical controls you set to help keep 
information secure when devices are communicating with each other and the 
cloud. AWS IoT Device Defender makes it easy to maintain and enforce IoT 
configurations, such as ensuring device identity, authenticating and authorizing 
devices, and encrypting device data. AWS IoT Device Defender continuously 
audits the IoT configurations on your devices against a set of predefined 
security best practices. AWS IoT Device Defender sends an alert if there are 
any gaps in your IoT configuration that might create a security risk, such as 
identity certificates being shared across multiple devices or a device with a 
revoked identity certificate trying to connect to AWS IoT Core. 

AWS IoT Device Defender also lets you continuously monitor security metrics 
from devices and AWS IoT Core for deviations from what you have defined as 
appropriate behavior for each device. If something doesn’t look right, AWS IoT 
Device Defender sends out an alert so you can take action to remediate the 
issue. For example, traffic spikes in outbound traffic might indicate that a device 
is participating in a DDoS attack. AWS IoT Greengrass and Amazon FreeRTOS 
automatically integrate with AWS IoT Device Defender to provide security 
metrics from the devices for evaluation. 

AWS IoT Device Defender can send alerts to the AWS IoT Console, Amazon 
CloudWatch, and Amazon SNS. If you determine that you need to take an 
action based on an alert, you can use AWS IoT Device Management to take 
mitigating actions such as pushing security fixes. 

AWS IoT Device Management 

As many IoT deployments consist of hundreds of thousands to millions of 
devices, it is essential to track, monitor, and manage connected device fleets. 
You need to ensure your IoT devices work properly and securely after they 
have been deployed. You also need to secure access to your devices, monitor 
health, detect and remotely troubleshoot problems, and manage software and 
firmware updates. 

AWS IoT Device Management makes it easy to securely onboard, organize, 
monitor, and remotely manage IoT devices at scale. With AWS IoT Device 

Page 39 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Management, you can register your connected devices individually or in bulk, 
and easily manage permissions so that devices remain secure. You can also 
organize your devices, monitor and troubleshoot device functionality, query the 
state of any IoT device in your fleet, and send firmware updates over-the-air 
(OTA). AWS IoT Device Management is agnostic to device type and OS, so you 
can manage devices from constrained microcontrollers to connected cars all 
with the same service. AWS IoT Device Management allows you to scale your 
fleets and reduce the cost and effort of managing large and diverse IoT device 
deployments. 

AWS IoT Events 

AWS IoT Events is a fully managed IoT service that makes it easy to detect and 
respond to events from IoT sensors and applications. Events are patterns of 
data identifying more complicated circumstances than expected, such as 
changes in equipment when a belt is stuck or connected motion detectors using 
movement signals to activate lights and security cameras. To detect events 
before AWS IoT Events, you had to build costly, custom applications to collect 
data, apply decision logic to detect an event, and then trigger another 
application to react to the event. Using AWS IoT Events, it’s simple to detect 
events across thousands of IoT sensors sending different telemetry data, such 
as temperature from a freezer, humidity from respiratory equipment, and belt 
speed on a motor, and hundreds of equipment management applications. You 
simply select the relevant data sources to ingest, define the logic for each event 
using simple ‘if-then-else’ statements, and select the alert or custom action to 
trigger when an event occurs. AWS IoT Events continuously monitors data from 
multiple IoT sensors and applications, and it integrates with other services, such 
as AWS IoT Core and AWS IoT Analytics, to enable early detection and unique 
insights into events. AWS IoT Events automatically triggers alerts and actions in 
response to events based on the logic you define. This helps resolve issues 
quickly, reduce maintenance costs, and increase operational efficiency. 

AWS IoT SiteWise 

AWS IoT SiteWise is a managed service that makes it easy to collect and 
organize data from industrial equipment at scale. You can easily monitor 
equipment across your industrial facilities to identify waste, such as breakdown 
of equipment and processes, production inefficiencies, and defects in products. 
Today, getting performance metrics from industrial equipment is tough because 
data is often locked into proprietary on-premises data stores and typically 

Page 40 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

requires specialized expertise to retrieve it and put it in a format that is useful 
for searching and analysis. IoT SiteWise simplifies this process by providing 
software running on a gateway that resides in your facilities and automates the 
process of collecting and organizing industrial equipment data. This gateway 
securely connects to your on-premises data servers, collects data, and sends 
the data to the AWS Cloud. You can run the IoT SiteWise software on an AWS 
Snowball Edge gateway or install the IoT SiteWise software on popular third-
party industrial gateways. These gateways are specifically designed for 
industrial environments that are likely already in your facilities connecting your 
industrial equipment. 

You can use IoT SiteWise to monitor operations across facilities, quickly 
compute common industrial performance metrics, and build applications to 
analyze industrial equipment data, prevent costly equipment issues, and reduce 
production inefficiencies. With IoT SiteWise, you can focus on understanding 
and optimizing your operations, rather than building costly in-house data 
collection and management applications. 

AWS IoT Things Graph 

AWS IoT Things Graph is a service that makes it easy to visually connect 
different devices and web services to build IoT applications. 

IoT applications are being built today using a variety of devices and web 
services to automate tasks for a wide range of use cases, such as smart 
homes, industrial automation, and energy management. Because there aren't 
any widely adopted standards, it's difficult today for developers to get devices 
from multiple manufacturers to connect to each other as well as with web 
services. This forces developers to write lots of code to wire together all of the 
devices and web services they need for their IoT application. AWS IoT Things 
Graph provides a visual drag-and-drop interface for connecting and 
coordinating devices and web services, so you can build IoT applications 
quickly. For example, in a commercial agriculture application, you can define 
interactions between humidity, temperature, and sprinkler sensors with weather 
data services in the cloud to automate watering. You represent devices and 
services using pre-built reusable components, called models, that hide low-level 
details, such as protocols and interfaces, and are easy to integrate to create 
sophisticated workflows. 

Page 41 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

You can get started with AWS IoT Things Graph using these pre-built models 
for popular device types, such as switches and programmable logic controllers 
(PLCs), or create your own custom model using a GraphQL-based schema 
modeling language, and deploy your IoT application to AWS IoT Greengrass-
enabled devices such as cameras, cable set-top boxes, or robotic arms in just a 
few clicks. IoT Greengrass is software that provides local compute and secure 
cloud connectivity so devices can respond quickly to local events even without 
internet connectivity, and runs on a huge range of devices from a Raspberry Pi 
to a server-level appliance. IoT Things Graph applications run on IoT 
Greengrass-enabled devices. 

AWS Partner Device Catalog 

The AWS Partner Device Catalog helps you find devices and hardware to help 
you explore, build, and go to market with your IoT solutions. Search for and find 
hardware that works with AWS, including development kits and embedded 
systems to build new devices, as well as off-the-shelf-devices such as 
gateways, edge servers, sensors, and cameras for immediate IoT project 
integration. The choice of AWS enabled hardware from our curated catalog of 
devices from APN partners can help make the rollout of your IoT projects 
easier. All devices listed in the AWS Partner Device Catalog are also available 
for purchase from our partners to get you started quickly. 

Machine Learning 

Amazon SageMaker 

Amazon SageMaker is a fully-managed platform that enables developers and 
data scientists to quickly and easily build, train, and deploy machine learning 
models at any scale. Amazon SageMaker removes all the barriers that typically 
slow down developers who want to use machine learning. 

Machine learning often feels a lot harder than it should be to most developers 
because the process to build and train models, and then deploy them into 
production is too complicated and too slow. First, you need to collect and 
prepare your training data to discover which elements of your data set are 
important. Then, you need to select which algorithm and framework you’ll use. 
After deciding on your approach, you need to teach the model how to make 
predictions by training, which requires a lot of compute. Then, you need to tune 
the model so it delivers the best possible predictions, which is often a tedious 

Page 42 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

and manual effort. After you’ve developed a fully trained model, you need to 
integrate the model with your application and deploy this application on 
infrastructure that will scale. All of this takes a lot of specialized expertise, 
access to large amounts of compute and storage, and a lot of time to 
experiment and optimize every part of the process. In the end, it's not a surprise 
that the whole thing feels out of reach for most developers. 

Amazon SageMaker removes the complexity that holds back developer 
success with each of these steps. Amazon SageMaker includes modules that 
can be used together or independently to build, train, and deploy your machine 
learning models. 

Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth 

Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth helps you build highly accurate training 
datasets for machine learning quickly. SageMaker Ground Truth offers easy 
access to public and private human labelers and provides them with built-in 
workflows and interfaces for common labeling tasks. Additionally, SageMaker 
Ground Truth can lower your labeling costs by up to 70% using automatic 
labeling, which works by training Ground Truth from data labeled by humans so 
that the service learns to label data independently. 

Successful machine learning models are built on the shoulders of large volumes 
of high-quality training data. But, the process to create the training data 
necessary to build these models is often expensive, complicated, and time-
consuming. The majority of models created today require a human to manually 
label data in a way that allows the model to learn how to make correct 
decisions. For example, building a computer vision system that is reliable 
enough to identify objects - such as traffic lights, stop signs, and pedestrians - 
requires thousands of hours of video recordings that consist of hundreds of 
millions of video frames. Each one of these frames needs all of the important 
elements like the road, other cars, and signage to be labeled by a human 
before any work can begin on the model you want to develop. 

Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth significantly reduces the time and effort 
required to create datasets for training to reduce costs. These savings are 
achieved by using machine learning to automatically label data. The model is 
able to get progressively better over time by continuously learning from labels 
created by human labelers. 

Page 43 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Where the labeling model has high confidence in its results based on what it 
has learned so far, it will automatically apply labels to the raw data. Where the 
labeling model has lower confidence in its results, it will pass the data to 
humans to do the labeling. The human-generated labels are provided back to 
the labeling model for it to learn from and improve. Over time, SageMaker 
Ground Truth can label more and more data automatically and substantially 
speed up the creation of training datasets.  

Amazon Comprehend 

Amazon Comprehend is a natural language processing (NLP) service that uses 
machine learning to find insights and relationships in text. No machine learning 
experience required. 

There is a treasure trove of potential sitting in your unstructured data. Customer 
emails, support tickets, product reviews, social media, even advertising copy 
represents insights into customer sentiment that can be put to work for your 
business. The question is how to get at it? As it turns out, Machine learning is 
particularly good at accurately identifying specific items of interest inside vast 
swathes of text (such as finding company names in analyst reports), and can 
learn the sentiment hidden inside language (identifying negative reviews, or 
positive customer interactions with customer service agents), at almost limitless 
scale. 

Amazon Comprehend uses machine learning to help you uncover the insights 
and relationships in your unstructured data. The service identifies the language 
of the text; extracts key phrases, places, people, brands, or events; 
understands how positive or negative the text is; analyzes text using 
tokenization and parts of speech; and automatically organizes a collection of 
text files by topic. You can also use AutoML capabilities in Amazon 
Comprehend to build a custom set of entities or text classification models that 
are tailored uniquely to your organization’s needs. 

For extracting complex medical information from unstructured text, you can use 
Amazon Comprehend Medical. The service can identify medical information, 
such as medical conditions, medications, dosages, strengths, and frequencies 
from a variety of sources like doctor’s notes, clinical trial reports, and patient 
health records. Amazon Comprehend Medical also identifies the relationship 
among the extracted medication and test, treatment and procedure information 
for easier analysis. For example, the service identifies a particular dosage, 

Page 44 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

strength, and frequency related to a specific medication from unstructured 
clinical notes. 

Amazon Lex 

Amazon Lex is a service for building conversational interfaces into any 
application using voice and text. Lex provides the advanced deep learning 
functionalities of automatic speech recognition (ASR) for converting speech to 
text, and natural language understanding (NLU) to recognize the intent of the 
text, to enable you to build applications with highly engaging user experiences 
and lifelike conversational interactions. With Amazon Lex, the same deep 
learning technologies that power Amazon Alexa are now available to any 
developer, enabling you to quickly and easily build sophisticated, natural 
language, conversational bots (“chatbots”). 

Speech recognition and natural language understanding are some of the most 
challenging problems to solve in computer science, requiring sophisticated 
deep learning algorithms to be trained on massive amounts of data and 
infrastructure. Amazon Lex democratizes these deep learning technologies by 
putting the power of Alexa within reach of all developers. Harnessing these 
technologies, Amazon Lex enables you to deﬁne entirely new categories of 
products made possible through conversational interfaces. 

Amazon Polly 

Amazon Polly is a service that turns text into lifelike speech. Polly lets you 
create applications that talk, enabling you to build entirely new categories of 
speech-enabled products. Polly is an Amazon artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) service 
that uses advanced deep learning technologies to synthesize speech that 
sounds like a human voice. Polly includes 47 lifelike voices spread across 24 
languages, so you can select the ideal voice and build speech-enabled 
applications that work in many diﬀerent countries. 

Amazon Polly delivers the consistently fast response times required to support 
real-time, interactive dialog. You can cache and save Polly’s speech audio to 
replay oﬄine or redistribute. And Polly is easy to use. You simply send the text 
you want converted into speech to the Polly API, and Polly immediately returns 
the audio stream to your application so your application can play it directly or 
store it in a standard audio ﬁle format, such as MP3. 

Page 45 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

With Polly, you only pay for the number of characters you convert to speech, 
and you can save and replay Polly’s generated speech. Polly’s low cost per 
character converted, and lack of restrictions on storage and reuse of voice 
output, make it a cost-eﬀective way to enable Text-to-Speech everywhere. 

Amazon Rekognition 

Amazon Rekognition is a service that makes it easy to add image analysis to 
your applications. With Rekognition, you can detect objects, scenes, and faces 
in images. You can also search and compare faces. The Amazon Rekognition 
API enables you to quickly add sophisticated deep-learning-based visual search 
and image classiﬁcation to your applications. 

Amazon Rekognition is based on the same proven, highly scalable, deep 
learning technology developed by Amazon’s computer vision scientists to 
analyze billions of images daily for Prime Photos. Amazon Rekognition uses 
deep neural network models to detect and label thousands of objects and 
scenes in your images, and we are continually adding new labels and facial 
recognition features to the service. 

The Amazon Rekognition API lets you easily build powerful visual search and 
discovery into your applications. With Amazon Rekognition, you only pay for the 
images you analyze and the face metadata you store. There are no minimum 
fees, and there are no upfront commitments. 

Amazon Translate 

Amazon Translate is a neural machine translation service that delivers fast, 
high-quality, and affordable language translation. Neural machine translation is 
a form of language translation automation that uses deep learning models to 
deliver more accurate and more natural sounding translation than traditional 
statistical and rule-based translation algorithms. Amazon Translate allows you 
to localize content - such as websites and applications - for international users, 
and to easily translate large volumes of text efficiently. 

Amazon Transcribe 

Amazon Transcribe is an automatic speech recognition (ASR) service that 
makes it easy for developers to add speech-to-text capability to their 
applications. Using the Amazon Transcribe API, you can analyze audio files 
stored in Amazon S3 and have the service return a text file of the transcribed 

Page 46 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

speech. You can also send a live audio stream to Amazon Transcribe and 
receive a stream of transcripts in real time. 

Amazon Transcribe can be used for lots of common applications, including the 
transcription of customer service calls and generating subtitles on audio and 
video content. The service can transcribe audio files stored in common formats, 
like WAV and MP3, with time stamps for every word so that you can easily 
locate the audio in the original source by searching for the text. Amazon 
Transcribe is continually learning and improving to keep pace with the evolution 
of language. 

Amazon Elastic Inference 

Amazon Elastic Inference allows you to attach low-cost GPU-powered 
acceleration to Amazon EC2 and Amazon SageMaker instances to reduce the 
cost of running deep learning inference by up to 75%. Amazon Elastic Inference 
supports TensorFlow, Apache MXNet, and ONNX models, with more 
frameworks coming soon. 

In most deep learning applications, making predictions using a trained model—
a process called inference—can drive as much as 90% of the compute costs of 
the application due to two factors. First, standalone GPU instances are 
designed for model training and are typically oversized for inference. While 
training jobs batch process hundreds of data samples in parallel, most inference 
happens on a single input in real time that consumes only a small amount of 
GPU compute. Even at peak load, a GPU's compute capacity may not be fully 
utilized, which is wasteful and costly. Second, different models need different 
amounts of GPU, CPU, and memory resources. Selecting a GPU instance type 
that is big enough to satisfy the requirements of the least used resource often 
results in under-utilization of the other resources and high costs. 

Amazon Elastic Inference solves these problems by allowing you to attach just 
the right amount of GPU-powered inference acceleration to any EC2 or 
SageMaker instance type with no code changes. With Amazon Elastic 
Inference, you can now choose the instance type that is best suited to the 
overall CPU and memory needs of your application, and then separately 
configure the amount of inference acceleration that you need to use resources 
efficiently and to reduce the cost of running inference. 

Page 47 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Amazon Forecast 

Amazon Forecast is a fully managed service that uses machine learning to 
deliver highly accurate forecasts. 

Companies today use everything from simple spreadsheets to complex financial 
planning software to attempt to accurately forecast future business outcomes 
such as product demand, resource needs, or financial performance. These 
tools build forecasts by looking at a historical series of data, which is called time 
series data. For example, such tools may try to predict the future sales of a 
raincoat by looking only at its previous sales data with the underlying 
assumption that the future is determined by the past. This approach can 
struggle to produce accurate forecasts for large sets of data that have irregular 
trends. Also, it fails to easily combine data series that change over time (such 
as price, discounts, web traffic, and number of employees) with relevant 
independent variables like product features and store locations. 

Based on the same technology used at Amazon.com, Amazon Forecast uses 
machine learning to combine time series data with additional variables to build 
forecasts. Amazon Forecast requires no machine learning experience to get 
started. You only need to provide historical data, plus any additional data that 
you believe may impact your forecasts. For example, the demand for a 
particular color of a shirt may change with the seasons and store location. This 
complex relationship is hard to determine on its own, but machine learning is 
ideally suited to recognize it. Once you provide your data, Amazon Forecast will 
automatically examine it, identify what is meaningful, and produce a forecasting 
model capable of making predictions that are up to 50% more accurate than 
looking at time series data alone. 

Amazon Forecast is a fully managed service, so there are no servers to 
provision, and no machine learning models to build, train, or deploy. You pay 
only for what you use, and there are no minimum fees and no upfront 
commitments. 

Amazon Textract 

Amazon Textract is a service that automatically extracts text and data from 
scanned documents. Amazon Textract goes beyond simple optical character 
recognition (OCR) to also identify the contents of fields in forms and information 
stored in tables. 

Page 48 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Many companies today extract data from documents and forms through manual 
data entry that’s slow and expensive or through simple optical character 
recognition (OCR) software that is difficult to customize. Rules and workflows 
for each document and form often need to be hard-coded and updated with 
each change to the form or when dealing with multiple forms. If the form 
deviates from the rules, the output is often scrambled and unusable. 

Amazon Textract overcomes these challenges by using machine learning to 
instantly “read” virtually any type of document to accurately extract text and 
data without the need for any manual effort or custom code. With Textract you 
can quickly automate document workflows, enabling you to process millions of 
document pages in hours. Once the information is captured, you can take 
action on it within your business applications to initiate next steps for a loan 
application or medical claims processing. Additionally, you can create smart 
search indexes, build automated approval workflows, and better maintain 
compliance with document archival rules by flagging data that may require 
redaction. 

Amazon Personalize 

Amazon Personalize is a machine learning service that makes it easy for 
developers to create individualized recommendations for customers using their 
applications. 

Machine learning is being increasingly used to improve customer engagement 
by powering personalized product and content recommendations, tailored 
search results, and targeted marketing promotions. However, developing the 
machine-learning capabilities necessary to produce these sophisticated 
recommendation systems has been beyond the reach of most organizations 
today due to the complexity of developing machine learning functionality. 
Amazon Personalize allows developers with no prior machine learning 
experience to easily build sophisticated personalization capabilities into their 
applications, using machine learning technology perfected from years of use on 
Amazon.com. 

With Amazon Personalize, you provide an activity stream from your application 
– page views, signups, purchases, and so forth – as well as an inventory of the 
items you want to recommend, such as articles, products, videos, or music. You 
can also choose to provide Amazon Personalize with additional demographic 
information from your users such as age, or geographic location. Amazon 

Page 49 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Personalize will process and examine the data, identify what is meaningful, 
select the right algorithms, and train and optimize a personalization model that 
is customized for your data. 

All data analyzed by Amazon Personalize is kept private and secure, and only 
used for your customized recommendations. You can start serving your 
personalized predictions via a simple API call from inside the virtual private 
cloud that the service maintains. You pay only for what you use, and there are 
no minimum fees and no upfront commitments. 

Amazon Personalize is like having your own Amazon.com machine learning 
personalization team at your disposal, 24 hours a day. 

Amazon Deep Learning AMIs 

The AWS Deep Learning AMIs provide machine learning practitioners and 
researchers with the infrastructure and tools to accelerate deep learning in the 
cloud, at any scale. You can quickly launch Amazon EC2 instances pre-
installed with popular deep learning frameworks such as Apache MXNet and 
Gluon, TensorFlow, Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit, Caffe, Caffe2, Theano, Torch, 
PyTorch, Chainer, and Keras to train sophisticated, custom AI models, 
experiment with new algorithms, or to learn new skills and techniques 

AWS DeepLens 

AWS DeepLens helps put deep learning in the hands of developers, literally, 
with a fully programmable video camera, tutorials, code, and pre-trained models 
designed to expand deep learning skills. 

AWS DeepRacer 

AWS DeepRacer is a 1/18th scale race car which gives you an interesting and 
fun way to get started with reinforcement learning (RL). RL is an advanced 
machine learning (ML) technique which takes a very different approach to 
training models than other machine learning methods. Its super power is that it 
learns very complex behaviors without requiring any labeled training data, and 
can make short term decisions while optimizing for a longer term goal. 

With AWS DeepRacer, you now have a way to get hands-on with RL, 
experiment, and learn through autonomous driving. You can get started with the 
virtual car and tracks in the cloud-based 3D racing simulator, and for a real-

Page 50 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

world experience, you can deploy your trained models onto AWS DeepRacer 
and race your friends, or take part in the global AWS DeepRacer League. 
Developers, the race is on. 

Apache MXNet on AWS 

Apache MXNet on AWS is a fast and scalable training and inference framework 
with an easy-to-use, concise API for machine learning. 

MXNet includes the Gluon interface that allows developers of all skill levels to 
get started with deep learning on the cloud, on edge devices, and on mobile 
apps. In just a few lines of Gluon code, you can build linear regression, 
convolutional networks and recurrent LSTMs for object detection, speech 
recognition, recommendation, and personalization. 

You can get started with MxNet on AWS with a fully-managed experience 
using Amazon SageMaker, a platform to build, train, and deploy machine 
learning models at scale. Or, you can use the AWS Deep Learning AMIs to 
build custom environments and workflows with MxNet as well as other 
frameworks including TensorFlow, PyTorch, Chainer, Keras, Caffe, Caffe2, and 
Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit. 

TensorFlow on AWS 

TensorFlow™ enables developers to quickly and easily get started with deep 
learning in the cloud. The framework has broad support in the industry and has 
become a popular choice for deep learning research and application 
development, particularly in areas such as computer vision, natural language 
understanding and speech translation. 

You can get started on AWS with a fully-managed TensorFlow experience with 
Amazon SageMaker, a platform to build, train, and deploy machine learning 
models at scale. Or, you can use the AWS Deep Learning AMIs to build custom 
environments and workflows with TensorFlow and other popular frameworks 
including Apache MXNet, PyTorch, Caffe, Caffe2, Chainer, Gluon, Keras, and 
Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit. 

AWS Inferentia 

AWS Inferentia is a machine learning inference chip designed to deliver high 
performance at low cost. AWS Inferentia will support the TensorFlow, Apache 

Page 51 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

MXNet, and PyTorch deep learning frameworks, as well as models that use the 
ONNX format. 

Making predictions using a trained machine learning model–a process called 
inference–can drive as much as 90% of the compute costs of the application. 
Using Amazon Elastic Inference, developers can reduce inference costs by up 
to 75% by attaching GPU-powered inference acceleration to Amazon EC2 and 
Amazon SageMaker instances. However, some inference workloads require an 
entire GPU or have extremely low latency requirements. Solving this challenge 
at low cost requires a dedicated inference chip. 

AWS Inferentia provides high throughput, low latency inference performance at 
an extremely low cost. Each chip provides hundreds of TOPS (tera operations 
per second) of inference throughput to allow complex models to make fast 
predictions. For even more performance, multiple AWS Inferentia chips can be 
used together to drive thousands of TOPS of throughput. AWS Inferentia will be 
available for use with Amazon SageMaker, Amazon EC2, and Amazon Elastic 
Inference. 

Management and Governance 

Amazon CloudWatch 

Amazon CloudWatch is a monitoring and management service built for 
developers, system operators, site reliability engineers (SRE), and IT 
managers. CloudWatch provides you with data and actionable insights to 
monitor your applications, understand and respond to system-wide performance 
changes, optimize resource utilization, and get a unified view of operational 
health. CloudWatch collects monitoring and operational data in the form of logs, 
metrics, and events, providing you with a unified view of AWS resources, 
applications and services that run on AWS, and on-premises servers. You can 
use CloudWatch to set high resolution alarms, visualize logs and metrics side 
by side, take automated actions, troubleshoot issues, and discover insights to 
optimize your applications, and ensure they are running smoothly. 

AWS Auto Scaling 

AWS Auto Scaling monitors your applications and automatically adjusts 
capacity to maintain steady, predictable performance at the lowest possible 
cost. Using AWS Auto Scaling, it’s easy to setup application scaling for multiple 

Page 52 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

resources across multiple services in minutes. The service provides a simple, 
powerful user interface that lets you build scaling plans for resources 
including Amazon EC2 instances and Spot Fleets, Amazon ECS tasks, Amazon 
DynamoDB tables and indexes, and Amazon Aurora Replicas. AWS Auto 
Scaling makes scaling simple with recommendations that allow you to optimize 
performance, costs, or balance between them. If you’re already using Amazon 
EC2 Auto Scaling to dynamically scale your Amazon EC2 instances, you can 
now combine it with AWS Auto Scaling to scale additional resources for other 
AWS services. With AWS Auto Scaling, your applications always have the right 
resources at the right time. 

AWS Control Tower 

AWS Control Tower automates the set-up of a baseline environment, or landing 
zone, that is a secure, well-architected multi-account AWS environment. The 
configuration of the landing zone is based on best practices that have been 
established by working with thousands of enterprise customers to create a 
secure environment that makes it easier to govern AWS workloads with rules 
for security, operations, and compliance. 

As enterprises migrate to AWS, they typically have a large number of 
applications and distributed teams. They often want to create multiple accounts 
to allow their teams to work independently, while still maintaining a consistent 
level of security and compliance. In addition, they use AWS’s management and 
security services, like AWS Organizations, AWS Service Catalog and AWS 
Config, that provide very granular controls over their workloads. They want to 
maintain this control, but they also want a way to centrally govern and enforce 
the best use of AWS services across all the accounts in their environment. 

Control Tower automates the set-up of their landing zone and configures AWS 
management and security services based on established best practices in a 
secure, compliant, multi-account environment. Distributed teams are able to 
provision new AWS accounts quickly, while central teams have the peace of 
mind knowing that new accounts are aligned with centrally established, 
company-wide compliance policies. This gives you control over your 
environment, without sacrificing the speed and agility AWS provides your 
development teams. 

Page 53 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

AWS Systems Manager 

AWS Systems Manager gives you visibility and control of your infrastructure on 
AWS. Systems Manager provides a unified user interface so you can view 
operational data from multiple AWS services and allows you to automate 
operational tasks across your AWS resources. With Systems Manager, you can 
group resources, like Amazon EC2 instances, Amazon S3 buckets, or Amazon 
RDS instances, by application, view operational data for monitoring and 
troubleshooting, and take action on your groups of resources. Systems 
Manager simplifies resource and application management, shortens the time to 
detect and resolve operational problems, and makes it easy to operate and 
manage your infrastructure securely at scale. 

AWS Systems Manager contains the following tools: 

•  Resource groups: Lets you create a logical group of resources 

associated with a particular workload such as different layers of an 
application stack, or production versus development environments. For 
example, you can group different layers of an application, such as the 
frontend web layer and the backend data layer. Resource groups can be 
created, updated, or removed programmatically through the API. 

• 

Insights Dashboard: Displays operational data that the AWS Systems 
Manager automatically aggregates for each resource group. Systems 
Manager eliminates the need for you to navigate across multiple AWS 
consoles to view your operational data. With Systems Manager you can 
view API call logs from AWS CloudTrail, resource configuration changes 
from AWS Config, software inventory, and patch compliance status by 
resource group. You can also easily integrate your AWS 
CloudWatch Dashboards, AWS Trusted Advisor notifications, and AWS 
Personal Health Dashboard performance and availability alerts into your 
Systems Manager dashboard. Systems Manager centralizes all relevant 
operational data, so you can have a clear view of your infrastructure 
compliance and performance. 

•  Run Command: Provides a simple way of automating common 

administrative tasks like remotely executing shell scripts or PowerShell 
commands, installing software updates, or making changes to the 
conﬁguration of OS, software, EC2 and instances and servers in your on-
premises data center. 

Page 54 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

•  State Manager: Helps you deﬁne and maintain consistent OS 

conﬁgurations such as ﬁrewall settings and anti-malware deﬁnitions to 
comply with your policies. You can monitor the conﬁguration of a   large 
set of instances, specify a conﬁguration policy for the instances, and 
automatically apply updates or conﬁguration changes. 

• 

Inventory: Helps you collect and query conﬁguration and inventory 
information about your instances and the software installed on them. You 
can gather details about your instances such as installed applications, 
DHCP settings, agent detail, and custom items. You can run queries to 
track and audit your system conﬁgurations. 

•  Maintenance Window: Lets you deﬁne a recurring window of time to run 

administrative and maintenance tasks across your instances. This 
ensures that installing patches and updates, or making other 
conﬁguration changes does not disrupt business-critical operations. This 
helps improve your application availability. 

•  Patch Manager: Helps you select and deploy operating system and 

software patches automatically across large groups of instances. You 
can deﬁne a maintenance window so that patches are applied only 
during set times that ﬁt your needs. These capabilities help ensure that 
your software is always up to date and meets your compliance policies. 

•  Automation: Simpliﬁes common maintenance and deployment tasks, 

such as updating Amazon Machine Images (AMIs). Use the Automation 
feature to apply patches, update drivers and agents, or bake applications 
into your AMI using a streamlined, repeatable, and auditable process. 

•  Parameter Store: Provides an encrypted location to store important 

administrative information such as passwords and database strings. The 
Parameter Store integrates with AWS KMS to make it easy to encrypt 
the information you keep in the Parameter Store. 

Page 55 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

•  Distributor: Helps you securely distribute and install software packages, 

such as software agents. Systems Manager Distributor allows you to 
centrally store and systematically distribute software packages while you 
maintain control over versioning. You can use Distributor to create and 
distribute software packages and then install them using Systems 
Manager Run Command and State Manager. Distributor can also use 
Identity and Access Management (IAM) policies to control who can 
create or update packages in your account. You can use the existing 
IAM policy support for Systems Manager Run Command and State 
Manager to define who can install packages on your hosts. 

•  Session Manager: Provides a browser-based interactive shell and CLI 

for managing Windows and Linux EC2 instances, without the need to 
open inbound ports, manage SSH keys, or use bastion hosts. 
Administrators can grant and revoke access to instances through a 
central location by using AWS Identity and Access Management 
(IAM) policies. This allows you to control which users can access each 
instance, including the option to provide non-root access to specified 
users. Once access is provided, you can audit which user accessed an 
instance and log each command to Amazon S3 or Amazon CloudWatch 
Logs using AWS CloudTrail. 

AWS CloudFormation 

AWS CloudFormation gives developers and systems administrators an easy 
way to create and manage a collection of related AWS resources, provisioning 
and updating them in an orderly and predictable fashion. 

You can use the AWS CloudFormation sample templates or create your own 
templates to describe your AWS resources, and any associated dependencies 
or runtime parameters, required to run your application. You don’t need to ﬁgure 
out the order for provisioning AWS services or the subtleties of making those 
dependencies work. CloudFormation takes care of this for you. After the AWS 
resources are deployed, you can modify and update them in a controlled and 
predictable way, in eﬀect applying version control to your AWS infrastructure 
the same way you do with your software. You can also visualize your templates 
as diagrams and edit them using a drag-and-drop interface with the AWS 
CloudFormation Designer. 

Page 56 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

AWS CloudTrail 

AWS CloudTrail is a web service that records AWS API calls for your account 
and delivers log ﬁles to you. The recorded information includes the identity of 
the API caller, the time of the API call, the source IP address of the API caller, 
the request parameters, and the response elements returned by the AWS 
service. 

With CloudTrail, you can get a history of AWS API calls for your account, 
including API calls made using the AWS Management Console, AWS SDKs, 
command line tools, and higher-level AWS services (such as AWS 
CloudFormation). The AWS API call history produced by CloudTrail enables 
security analysis, resource change tracking, and compliance auditing. 

AWS Conﬁg 

AWS Conﬁg is a fully managed service that provides you with an AWS resource 
inventory, conﬁguration history, and conﬁguration change notiﬁcations to enable 
security and governance. The Conﬁg Rules feature enables you to create rules 
that automatically check the conﬁguration of AWS resources recorded by AWS 
Conﬁg. 

With AWS Conﬁg, you can discover existing and deleted AWS resources, 
determine your overall compliance against rules, and dive into conﬁguration 
details of a resource at any point in time. These capabilities enable compliance 
auditing, security analysis, resource change tracking, and troubleshooting. 

AWS OpsWorks 

AWS OpsWorks is a configuration management service that provides managed 
instances of Chef and Puppet. Chef and Puppet are automation platforms that 
allow you to use code to automate the configurations of your servers. 
OpsWorks lets you use Chef and Puppet to automate how servers are 
configured, deployed, and managed across your Amazon EC2 instances or on-
premises compute environments. OpsWorks has three offerings, AWS 
Opsworks for Chef Automate, AWS OpsWorks for Puppet Enterprise, and AWS 
OpsWorks Stacks. 

AWS Service Catalog 

AWS Service Catalog allows organizations to create and manage catalogs of IT 
services that are approved for use on AWS. These IT services can include 

Page 57 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

everything from virtual machine images, servers, software, and databases to 
complete multi-tier application architectures. AWS Service Catalog allows you 
to centrally manage commonly deployed IT services and helps you achieve 
consistent governance and meet your compliance requirements, while enabling 
users to quickly deploy only the approved IT services they need. 

AWS Trusted Advisor 

AWS Trusted Advisor is an online resource to help you reduce cost, increase 
performance, and improve security by optimizing your AWS environment. 
Trusted Advisor provides real-time guidance to help you provision your 
resources following AWS best practices. 

AWS Personal Health Dashboard 

AWS Personal Health Dashboard provides alerts and remediation guidance 
when AWS is experiencing events that might aﬀect you. While the Service 
Health Dashboard displays the general status of AWS services, Personal 
Health Dashboard gives you a personalized view into the performance and 
availability of the AWS services underlying your AWS resources. The 
dashboard displays relevant and timely information to help you manage events 
in progress, and provides proactive notiﬁcation to help you plan for scheduled 
activities. With Personal Health Dashboard, alerts are automatically triggered by 
changes in the health of AWS resources, giving you event visibility and 
guidance to help quickly diagnose and resolve issues. 

AWS Managed Services 

AWS Managed Services provides ongoing management of your AWS 
infrastructure so you can focus on your applications. By implementing best 
practices to maintain your infrastructure, AWS Managed Services helps to 
reduce your operational overhead and risk. AWS Managed Services automates 
common activities such as change requests, monitoring, patch management, 
security, and backup services, and provides full-lifecycle services to provision, 
run, and support your infrastructure. Our rigor and controls help to enforce your 
corporate and security infrastructure policies, and enables you to develop 
solutions and applications using your preferred development approach. AWS 
Managed Services improves agility, reduces cost, and unburdens you from 
infrastructure operations so you can direct resources toward diﬀerentiating your 
business. 

Page 58 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

AWS Console Mobile Application 

The AWS Console Mobile Application lets customers view and manage a select 
set of resources to support incident response while on-the-go.  

The Console Mobile Application allows AWS customers to monitor resources 
through a dedicated dashboard and view configuration details, metrics, and 
alarms for select AWS services. The Dashboard provides permitted users with 
a single view a resource's status, with real-time data on Amazon CloudWatch, 
Personal Health Dashboard, and AWS Billing and Cost Management. 
Customers can view ongoing issues and follow through to the relevant 
CloudWatch alarm screen for a detailed view with graphs and configuration 
options. In addition, customers can check on the status of specific AWS 
services, view detailed resource screens, and perform select actions.  

AWS License Manager 

AWS License Manager makes it easier to manage licenses in AWS and on-
premises servers from software vendors such as Microsoft, SAP, Oracle, and 
IBM. AWS License Manager lets administrators create customized licensing 
rules that emulate the terms of their licensing agreements, and then enforces 
these rules when an instance of EC2 gets launched. Administrators can use 
these rules to limit licensing violations, such as using more licenses than an 
agreement stipulates or reassigning licenses to different servers on a short-term 
basis. The rules in AWS License Manager enable you to limit a licensing breach 
by physically stopping the instance from launching or by notifying administrators 
about the infringement. Administrators gain control and visibility of all their 
licenses with the AWS License Manager dashboard and reduce the risk of non-
compliance, misreporting, and additional costs due to licensing overages. 

AWS License Manager integrates with AWS services to simplify the 
management of licenses across multiple AWS accounts, IT catalogs, and on-
premises, through a single AWS account. License administrators can add rules 
in AWS Service Catalog, which allows them to create and manage catalogs of 
IT services that are approved for use on all their AWS accounts. Through 
seamless integration with AWS Systems Manager and AWS Organizations, 
administrators can manage licenses across all the AWS accounts in an 
organization and on-premises environments. AWS Marketplace buyers can also 
use AWS License Manager to track bring your own license (BYOL) software 
obtained from the Marketplace and keep a consolidated view of all their 
licenses. 

Page 59 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

AWS Well-Architected Tool 

The AWS Well-Architected Tool helps you review the state of your workloads 
and compares them to the latest AWS architectural best practices. The tool is 
based on the AWS Well-Architected Framework, developed to help cloud 
architects build secure, high-performing, resilient, and efficient application 
infrastructure. This Framework provides a consistent approach for customers 
and partners to evaluate architectures, has been used in tens of thousands of 
workload reviews conducted by the AWS solutions architecture team, and 
provides guidance to help implement designs that scale with application needs 
over time. 

To use this free tool, available in the AWS Management Console, just define 
your workload and answer a set of questions regarding operational excellence, 
security, reliability, performance efficiency, and cost optimization. The AWS 
Well-Architected Tool then provides a plan on how to architect for the cloud 
using established best practices. 

Media Services 

Amazon Elastic Transcoder 

Amazon Elastic Transcoder is media transcoding in the cloud. It is designed to 
be a highly scalable, easy- to-use, and cost-eﬀective way for developers and 
businesses to convert (or transcode) media ﬁles from their source format into 
versions that will play back on devices like smartphones, tablets, and PCs. 

AWS Elemental MediaConnect 

AWS Elemental MediaConnect is a high-quality transport service for live video. 
Today, broadcasters and content owners rely on satellite networks or fiber 
connections to send their high-value content into the cloud or to transmit it to 
partners for distribution. Both satellite and fiber approaches are expensive, 
require long lead times to set up, and lack the flexibility to adapt to changing 
requirements. To be more nimble, some customers have tried to use solutions 
that transmit live video on top of IP infrastructure, but have struggled with 
reliability and security.  

Now you can get the reliability and security of satellite and fiber combined with 
the flexibility, agility, and economics of IP-based networks using AWS 
Elemental MediaConnect. MediaConnect enables you to build mission-critical 

Page 60 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

live video workflows in a fraction of the time and cost of satellite or fiber 
services. You can use MediaConnect to ingest live video from a remote event 
site (like a stadium), share video with a partner (like a cable TV distributor), or 
replicate a video stream for processing (like an over-the-top service). 
MediaConnect combines reliable video transport, highly secure stream sharing, 
and real-time network traffic and video monitoring that allow you to focus on 
your content, not your transport infrastructure. 

AWS Elemental MediaConvert 

AWS Elemental MediaConvert is a file-based video transcoding service with 
broadcast-grade features. It allows you to easily create video-on-demand 
(VOD) content for broadcast and multiscreen delivery at scale. The service 
combines advanced video and audio capabilities with a simple web services 
interface and pay-as-you-go pricing. With AWS Elemental MediaConvert, you 
can focus on delivering compelling media experiences without having to worry 
about the complexity of building and operating your own video processing 
infrastructure. 

AWS Elemental MediaLive 

AWS Elemental MediaLive is a broadcast-grade live video processing service. It 
lets you create high-quality video streams for delivery to broadcast televisions 
and internet-connected multiscreen devices, like connected TVs, tablets, smart 
phones, and set-top boxes. The service works by encoding your live video 
streams in real-time, taking a larger-sized live video source and compressing it 
into smaller versions for distribution to your viewers. With AWS Elemental 
MediaLive, you can easily set up streams for both live events and 24x7 
channels with advanced broadcasting features, high availability, and pay-as-
you-go pricing. AWS Elemental MediaLive lets you focus on creating compelling 
live video experiences for your viewers without the complexity of building and 
operating broadcast-grade video processing infrastructure. 

AWS Elemental Media Package 

AWS Elemental MediaPackage reliably prepares and protects your video for 
delivery over the Internet. From a single video input, AWS Elemental 
MediaPackage creates video streams formatted to play on connected TVs, 
mobile phones, computers, tablets, and game consoles. It makes it easy to 
implement popular video features for viewers (start-over, pause, rewind, etc.), 

Page 61 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

like those commonly found on DVRs. AWS Elemental MediaPackage can also 
protect your content using Digital Rights Management (DRM). AWS Elemental 
MediaPackage scales automatically in response to load, so your viewers will 
always get a great experience without you having to accurately predict in 
advance the capacity you’ll need. 

AWS Elemental MediaStore 

AWS Elemental MediaStore is an AWS storage service optimized for media. It 
gives you the performance, consistency, and low latency required to deliver live 
streaming video content. AWS Elemental MediaStore acts as the origin store in 
your video workflow. Its high performance capabilities meet the needs of the 
most demanding media delivery workloads, combined with long-term, cost-
effective storage. 

AWS Elemental MediaTailor 

AWS Elemental MediaTailor lets video providers insert individually targeted 
advertising into their video streams without sacrificing broadcast-level quality-of-
service. With AWS Elemental MediaTailor, viewers of your live or on-demand 
video each receive a stream that combines your content with ads personalized 
to them. But unlike other personalized ad solutions, with AWS Elemental 
MediaTailor your entire stream – video and ads – is delivered with broadcast-
grade video quality to improve the experience for your viewers. AWS Elemental 
MediaTailor delivers automated reporting based on both client and server-side 
ad delivery metrics, making it easy to accurately measure ad impressions and 
viewer behavior. You can easily monetize unexpected high-demand viewing 
events with no up-front costs using AWS Elemental MediaTailor. It also 
improves ad delivery rates, helping you make more money from every video, 
and it works with a wider variety of content delivery networks, ad decision 
servers, and client devices. 

See also Amazon Kinesis Video Streams. 

Migration and Transfer 

AWS Migration Hub 

AWS Migration Hub provides a single location to track the progress of 
application migrations across multiple AWS and partner solutions. Using 

Page 62 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Migration Hub allows you to choose the AWS and partner migration tools that 
best fit your needs, while providing visibility into the status of migrations across 
your portfolio of applications. Migration Hub also provides key metrics and 
progress for individual applications, regardless of which tools are being used to 
migrate them. For example, you might use AWS Database Migration Service, 
AWS Server Migration Service, and partner migration tools such as ATADATA 
ATAmotion, CloudEndure Live Migration, or RiverMeadow Server Migration 
Saas to migrate an application comprised of a database, virtualized web 
servers, and a bare metal server. Using Migration Hub, you can view the 
migration progress of all the resources in the application. This allows you to 
quickly get progress updates across all of your migrations, easily identify and 
troubleshoot any issues, and reduce the overall time and effort spent on your 
migration projects. 

AWS Application Discovery Service 

AWS Application Discovery Service helps enterprise customers plan migration 
projects by gathering information about their on-premises data centers. 

Planning data center migrations can involve thousands of workloads that are 
often deeply interdependent. Server utilization data and dependency mapping 
are important early first steps in the migration process. AWS Application 
Discovery Service collects and presents configuration, usage, and behavior 
data from your servers to help you better understand your workloads. 

The collected data is retained in encrypted format in an AWS Application 
Discovery Service data store. You can export this data as a CSV file and use it 
to estimate the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) of running on AWS and to plan 
your migration to AWS. In addition, this data is also available in AWS Migration 
Hub, where you can migrate the discovered servers and track their progress as 
they get migrated to AWS. 

AWS Database Migration Service 

AWS Database Migration Service helps you migrate databases to AWS easily 
and securely. The source database remains fully operational during the 
migration, minimizing downtime to applications that rely on the database. The 
AWS Database Migration Service can migrate your data to and from most 
widely used commercial and open-source databases. The service supports 
homogeneous migrations such as Oracle to Oracle, as well as heterogeneous 
migrations between diﬀerent database platforms, such as Oracle to Amazon 

Page 63 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Aurora or Microsoft SQL Server to MySQL. It also allows you to stream data to 
Amazon Redshift from any of the supported sources including Amazon Aurora, 
PostgreSQL, MySQL, MariaDB, Oracle, SAP ASE, and SQL Server, enabling 
consolidation and easy analysis of data in the petabyte-scale data warehouse. 
AWS Database Migration Service can also be used for continuous data 
replication with high availability. 

AWS Server Migration Service 

AWS Server Migration Service (SMS) is an agentless service which makes it 
easier and faster for you to migrate thousands of on-premises workloads to 
AWS. AWS SMS allows you to automate, schedule, and track incremental 
replications of live server volumes, making it easier for you to coordinate large-
scale server migrations. 

AWS Snowball 

AWS Snowball is a petabyte-scale data transport solution that uses secure 
appliances to transfer large amounts of data into and out of AWS. The use of 
Snowball addresses common challenges with large-   scale data transfers 
including high network costs, long transfer times, and security concerns. 
Transferring data with Snowball is simple, fast, secure, and can be as little as 
one-ﬁfth the cost of high-speed Internet. 

With Snowball, you don’t need to write any code or purchase any hardware to 
transfer your data. Simply create a job in the AWS Management Console and a 
Snowball appliance will be automatically shipped to you. Once it arrives, attach 
the appliance to your local network, download and run the Snowball client to 
establish a connection, and then use the client to select the ﬁle directories that 
you want to transfer to the appliance. The client will then encrypt and transfer 
the ﬁles to the appliance at high speed. Once the transfer is complete and the 
appliance is ready to be returned, the E Ink shipping label will automatically 
update and you can track the job status using the Amazon Simple Notification 
Service (Amazon SNS), text messages, or directly in the console. 

Snowball uses multiple layers of security designed to protect your data 
including tamper-resistant enclosures, 256-bit encryption, and an industry-
standard Trusted Platform Module (TPM) designed to ensure both security and 
full chain of custody of your data. Once the data transfer job has been 
processed and veriﬁed, AWS performs a software erasure of the Snowball 
appliance. 

Page 64 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

AWS Snowball Edge 

AWS Snowball Edge is a data migration and edge computing device that comes 
in two options. Snowball Edge Storage Optimized provides 100 TB of capacity 
and 24 vCPUs and is well suited for local storage and large scale data transfer. 
Snowball Edge Compute Optimized provides 52 vCPUs and an optional GPU 
for use cases such as advanced machine learning and full motion video 
analysis in disconnected environments. Customers can use these two options 
for data collection, machine learning and processing, and storage in 
environments with intermittent connectivity (such as manufacturing, industrial, 
and transportation) or in extremely remote locations (such as military or 
maritime operations) before shipping it back to AWS. These devices may also 
be rack mounted and clustered together to build larger, temporary installations. 

Snowball Edge supports specific Amazon EC2 instance types as well as AWS 
Lambda functions, so customers may develop and test in AWS then deploy 
applications on devices in remote locations to collect, pre-process, and return 
the data. Common use cases include data migration, data transport, image 
collation, IoT sensor stream capture, and machine learning. 

AWS Snowmobile 

AWS Snowmobile is an exabyte-scale data transfer service used to move 
extremely large amounts of data to AWS. You can transfer up to 100 PB per 
Snowmobile, a 45-foot long ruggedized shipping container, pulled by a semi-
trailer truck. Snowmobile makes it easy to move massive volumes of data to the 
cloud, including video libraries, image repositories, or even a complete data 
center migration. Transferring data with Snowmobile is secure, fast, and cost 
eﬀective. 

After an initial assessment, a Snowmobile will be transported to your data 
center, and AWS personnel will conﬁgure it for you so it can be accessed as a 
network storage target. When your Snowmobile is on site, AWS personnel will 
work with your team to connect a removable, high-speed network switch from 
the Snowmobile to your local network. Then you can begin your high-speed 
data transfer from any number of sources within your data center to the 
Snowmobile. After your data is loaded, the Snowmobile is driven back to AWS 
where your data is imported into Amazon S3 or Amazon Glacier. 

AWS Snowmobile uses multiple layers of security designed to protect your data 
including dedicated security personnel, GPS tracking, alarm monitoring, 24/7 

Page 65 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

video surveillance, and an optional escort security vehicle while in transit. All 
data is encrypted with 256-bit encryption keys managed through AWS KMS and 
designed to ensure both security and full chain of custody of your data. 

AWS DataSync 

AWS DataSync is a data transfer service that makes it easy for you to automate 
moving data between on-premises storage and Amazon S3 or Amazon Elastic 
File System (Amazon EFS). DataSync automatically handles many of the tasks 
related to data transfers that can slow down migrations or burden your IT 
operations, including running your own instances, handling encryption, 
managing scripts, network optimization, and data integrity validation. You can 
use DataSync to transfer data at speeds up to 10 times faster than open-source 
tools. DataSync uses an on-premises software agent to connect to your existing 
storage or file systems using the Network File System (NFS) protocol, so you 
don’t have write scripts or modify your applications to work with AWS APIs. You 
can use DataSync to copy data over AWS Direct Connect or internet links to 
AWS. The service enables one-time data migrations, recurring data processing 
workflows, and automated replication for data protection and recovery. Getting 
started with DataSync is easy: Deploy the DataSync agent on premises, 
connect it to a file system or storage array, select Amazon EFS or S3 as your 
AWS storage, and start moving data. You pay only for the data you copy. 

AWS Transfer for SFTP 

AWS Transfer for SFTP is a fully managed service that enables the transfer of 
files directly into and out of Amazon S3 using the Secure File Transfer Protocol 
(SFTP)—also known as Secure Shell (SSH) File Transfer Protocol. AWS helps 
you seamlessly migrate your file transfer workflows to AWS Transfer for 
SFTP—by integrating with existing authentication systems, and providing DNS 
routing with Amazon Route 53—so nothing changes for your customers and 
partners, or their applications. With your data in S3, you can use it with AWS 
services for processing, analytics, machine learning, and archiving. Getting 
started with AWS Transfer for SFTP (AWS SFTP) is easy; there is no 
infrastructure to buy and setup.  

Page 66 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Mobile 

AWS Amplify 

AWS Amplify makes it easy to create, configure, and implement scalable mobile 
applications powered by AWS. Amplify seamlessly provisions and manages 
your mobile backend and provides a simple framework to easily integrate your 
backend with your iOS, Android, Web, and React Native frontends. Amplify also 
automates the application release process of both your frontend and backend 
allowing you to deliver features faster. 

Mobile applications require cloud services for actions that can’t be done directly 
on the device, such as offline data synchronization, storage, or data sharing 
across multiple users. You often have to configure, set up, and manage multiple 
services to power the backend. You also have to integrate each of those 
services into your application by writing multiple lines of code. However, as the 
number of application features grow, your code and release process becomes 
more complex and managing the backend requires more time. 

Amplify provisions and manages backends for your mobile applications. You 
just select the capabilities you need such as authentication, analytics, or offline 
data sync and Amplify will automatically provision and manage the AWS service 
that powers each of the capabilities. You can then integrate those capabilities 
into your application through the Amplify libraries and UI components. 

Amazon Cognito 

Amazon Cognito lets you add user sign-up, sign-in, and access control to your 
web and mobile apps quickly and easily. With Amazon Cognito, you also have 
the option to authenticate users through social identity providers such as 
Facebook, Twitter, or Amazon, with SAML identity solutions, or by using your 
own identity system. In addition, Amazon Cognito enables you to save data 
locally on users’ devices, allowing your applications to work even when the 
devices are oﬄine. You can then synchronize data across users’ devices so 
that their app experience remains consistent regardless of the device they use. 

With Amazon Cognito, you can focus on creating great app experiences instead 
of worrying about building, securing, and scaling a solution to handle user 
management, authentication, and sync across devices. 

Page 67 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Amazon Pinpoint 

Amazon Pinpoint makes it easy to send targeted messages to your customers 
through multiple engagement channels. Examples of targeted campaigns are 
promotional alerts and customer retention campaigns, and transactional 
messages are messages such as order confirmations and password reset 
messages. 

You can integrate Amazon Pinpoint into your mobile and web apps to capture 
usage data to provide you with insight into how customers interact with your 
apps. Amazon Pinpoint also tracks the ways that your customers respond to the 
messages you send—for example, by showing you the number of messages 
that were delivered, opened, or clicked.  

You can develop custom audience segments and send them pre-scheduled 
targeted campaigns via email, SMS, and push notifications. Targeted 
campaigns are useful for sending promotional or educational content to re-
engage and retain your users.   

You can send transactional messages using the console or the Amazon 
Pinpoint REST API. Transactional campaigns can be sent via email, SMS, push 
notifications, and voice messages. You can also use the API to build custom 
applications that deliver campaign and transactional messages. 

AWS Device Farm 

AWS Device Farm is an app testing service that lets you test and interact with 
your Android, iOS, and web apps on many devices at once, or reproduce issues 
on a device in real time. View video, screenshots, logs, and performance data 
to pinpoint and ﬁx issues before shipping your app. 

AWS AppSync 

AWS AppSync is a serverless back-end for mobile, web, and enterprise 
applications. 

AWS AppSync makes it easy to build data driven mobile and web applications 
by handling securely all the application data management tasks like online and 
offline data access, data synchronization, and data manipulation across multiple 
data sources. AWS AppSync uses GraphQL, an API query language designed 
to build client applications by providing an intuitive and flexible syntax for 
describing their data requirement. 

Page 68 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Networking and Content Delivery 

Amazon VPC 

Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) lets you provision a logically 
isolated section of the AWS Cloud where you can launch AWS resources in a 
virtual network that you deﬁne. You have complete control over your virtual 
networking environment, including selection of your own IP address range, 
creation of subnets, and conﬁguration of route tables and network gateways. 
You can use both IPv4 and IPv6 in your VPC for secure and easy access to 
resources and applications. 

You can easily customize the network conﬁguration for your VPC. For example, 
you can create a public- facing subnet for your web servers that has access to 
the Internet, and place your backend systems, such as databases or application 
servers, in a private-facing subnet with no Internet access. You can leverage 
multiple layers of security (including security groups and network access control 
lists) to help control access to EC2 instances in each subnet. 

Additionally, you can create a hardware virtual private network (VPN) 
connection between your corporate data center and your VPC and leverage the 
AWS Cloud as an extension of your corporate data center. 

Amazon CloudFront 

Amazon CloudFront is a fast content delivery network (CDN) service that 
securely delivers data, videos, applications, and APIs to customers globally with 
low latency, high transfer speeds, all within a developer-friendly environment. 
CloudFront is integrated with AWS – both physical locations that are directly 
connected to the AWS global infrastructure, as well as other AWS services. 
CloudFront works seamlessly with services including AWS Shield for DDoS 
mitigation, Amazon S3, Elastic Load Balancing or Amazon EC2 as origins for 
your applications, and Lambda@Edge to run custom code closer to customers’ 
users and to customize the user experience. 

You can get started with the Content Delivery Network in minutes, using the 
same AWS tools that you're already familiar with: APIs, AWS Management 
Console, AWS CloudFormation, CLIs, and SDKs. Amazon's CDN offers a 
simple, pay-as-you-go pricing model with no upfront fees or required long-term 

Page 69 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

contracts, and support for the CDN is included in your existing AWS Support 
subscription. 

Amazon Route 53 

Amazon Route 53 is a highly available and scalable cloud Domain Name 
System (DNS) web service. It is designed to give developers and businesses 
an extremely reliable and cost-eﬀective way to route end users to Internet 
applications by translating human readable names, such as www.example.com, 
into the numeric IP addresses, such as 192.0.2.1, that computers use to 
connect to each other. Amazon Route 53 is fully compliant with IPv6 as well. 

Amazon Route 53 eﬀectively connects user requests to infrastructure running in 
AWS—such as EC2 instances, Elastic Load Balancing load balancers, or 
Amazon S3 buckets—and can also be used to route users to infrastructure 
outside of AWS. You can use Amazon Route 53 to conﬁgure DNS health 
checks   to route traﬃc to healthy endpoints or to independently monitor the 
health of your application and its endpoints. Amazon Route 53 traﬃc ﬂow 
makes it easy for you to manage traﬃc globally through a variety of routing 
types, including latency-based routing, Geo DNS, and weighted round robin—
all of which can be combined with DNS Failover in order to enable a variety of 
low-latency, fault-tolerant architectures. Using Amazon Route 53 traﬃc ﬂow’s 
simple visual editor, you can easily manage how your end users are routed to 
your application’s endpoints—whether in a single AWS Region or distributed 
around the globe. Amazon Route 53 also oﬀers Domain Name Registration—
you can purchase and manage domain names such as example.com and 
Amazon Route 53 will automatically conﬁgure DNS settings for your domains. 

AWS PrivateLink 

AWS PrivateLink simplifies the security of data shared with cloud-based 
applications by eliminating the exposure of data to the public Internet. AWS 
PrivateLink provides private connectivity between VPCs, AWS services, and 
on-premises applications, securely on the Amazon network. AWS PrivateLink 
makes it easy to connect services across different accounts and VPCs to 
significantly simplify the network architecture. 

AWS Direct Connect 

AWS Direct Connect makes it easy to establish a dedicated network connection 
from your premises to AWS. Using AWS Direct Connect, you can establish 

Page 70 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

private connectivity between AWS and your data center, oﬃce, or co-location 
environment, which in many cases can reduce your network costs, increase 
bandwidth throughput, and provide a more consistent network experience than 
Internet-based connections. 

AWS Direct Connect lets you establish a dedicated network connection 
between your network and one of the AWS Direct Connect locations. Using 
industry standard 802.1Q virtual LANS (VLANs), this dedicated connection can 
be partitioned into multiple virtual interfaces. This allows you to use the same 
connection to access public resources, such as objects stored in Amazon S3 
using public IP address space, and private resources such as EC2 instances 
running within a VPC using private IP address space, while maintaining network 
separation between the public and private environments. Virtual interfaces can 
be reconﬁgured at any time to meet your changing needs. 

AWS Global Accelerator 

AWS Global Accelerator is a networking service that improves the availability 
and performance of the applications that you offer to your global users. 

Today, if you deliver applications to your global users over the public internet, 
your users might face inconsistent availability and performance as they traverse 
through multiple public networks to reach your application. These public 
networks are often congested and each hop can introduce availability and 
performance risk. AWS Global Accelerator uses the highly available and 
congestion-free AWS global network to direct internet traffic from your users to 
your applications on AWS, making your users’ experience more consistent. 

To improve the availability of your application, you must monitor the health of 
your application endpoints and route traffic only to healthy endpoints. AWS 
Global Accelerator improves application availability by continuously monitoring 
the health of your application endpoints and routing traffic to the closest healthy 
endpoints. 

AWS Global Accelerator also makes it easier to manage your global 
applications by providing static IP addresses that act as a fixed entry point to 
your application hosted on AWS which eliminates the complexity of managing 
specific IP addresses for different AWS Regions and Availability Zones. AWS 
Global Accelerator is easy to set up, configure and manage. 

Page 71 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Amazon API Gateway 

Amazon API Gateway is a fully managed service that makes it easy for 
developers to create, publish, maintain, monitor, and secure APIs at any scale. 
With a few clicks in the AWS Management Console, you can create an API that 
acts as a “front door” for applications to access data, business logic, or 
functionality from your back-end services, such as workloads running on 
Amazon EC2, code running on AWS Lambda, or any web application. Amazon 
API Gateway handles all the tasks involved in accepting and processing up to 
hundreds of thousands of concurrent API calls, including traﬃc management, 
authorization and access control, monitoring, and API version management. 

AWS Transit Gateway 

AWS Transit Gateway is a service that enables customers to connect their 
Amazon Virtual Private Clouds (VPCs) and their on-premises networks to a 
single gateway. As you grow the number of workloads running on AWS, you 
need to be able to scale your networks across multiple accounts and Amazon 
VPCs to keep up with the growth. Today, you can connect pairs of Amazon 
VPCs using peering. However, managing point-to-point connectivity across 
many Amazon VPCs, without the ability to centrally manage the connectivity 
policies, can be operationally costly and cumbersome. For on-premises 
connectivity, you need to attach your AWS VPN to each individual Amazon 
VPC. This solution can be time consuming to build and hard to manage when 
the number of VPCs grows into the hundreds. 

With AWS Transit Gateway, you only have to create and manage a single 
connection from the central gateway in to each Amazon VPC, on-premises data 
center, or remote office across your network. Transit Gateway acts as a hub 
that controls how traffic is routed among all the connected networks which act 
like spokes. This hub and spoke model significantly simplifies management and 
reduces operational costs because each network only has to connect to the 
Transit Gateway and not to every other network. Any new VPC is simply 
connected to the Transit Gateway and is then automatically available to every 
other network that is connected to the Transit Gateway. This ease of 
connectivity makes it easy to scale your network as you grow. 

Page 72 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

AWS App Mesh 

AWS App Mesh makes it easy to monitor and control microservices running on 
AWS. App Mesh standardizes how your microservices communicate, giving you 
end-to-end visibility and helping to ensure high-availability for your applications. 

Modern applications are often composed of multiple microservices that each 
perform a specific function. This architecture helps to increase the availability 
and scalability of the application by allowing each component to scale 
independently based on demand, and automatically degrading functionality 
when a component fails instead of going offline. Each microservice interacts 
with all the other microservices through an API. As the number of microservices 
grows within an application, it becomes increasingly difficult to pinpoint the 
exact location of errors, re-route traffic after failures, and safely deploy code 
changes. Previously, this has required you to build monitoring and control logic 
directly into your code and redeploy your microservices every time there are 
changes. 

AWS App Mesh makes it easy to run microservices by providing consistent 
visibility and network traffic controls for every microservice in an application. 
App Mesh removes the need to update application code to change how 
monitoring data is collected or traffic is routed between microservices. App 
Mesh configures each microservice to export monitoring data and implements 
consistent communications control logic across your application. This makes it 
easy to quickly pinpoint the exact location of errors and automatically re-route 
network traffic when there are failures or when code changes need to be 
deployed. 

You can use App Mesh with Amazon ECS and Amazon EKS to better run 
containerized microservices at scale. App Mesh uses the open source Envoy 
proxy, making it compatible with a wide range of AWS partner and open source 
tools for monitoring microservices. 

AWS Cloud Map 

AWS Cloud Map is a cloud resource discovery service. With Cloud Map, you 
can define custom names for your application resources, and it maintains the 
updated location of these dynamically changing resources. This increases your 
application availability because your web service always discovers the most up-
to-date locations of its resources. 

Page 73 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Modern applications are typically composed of multiple services that are 
accessible over an API and perform a specific function. Each service interacts 
with a variety of other resources such as databases, queues, object stores, and 
customer-defined microservices, and they also need to be able to find the 
location of all the infrastructure resources on which it depends, in order to 
function. You typically manually manage all these resource names and their 
locations within the application code. However, manual resource management 
becomes time consuming and error-prone as the number of dependent 
infrastructure resources increases or the number of microservices dynamically 
scale up and down based on traffic. You can also use third-party service 
discovery products, but this requires installing and managing additional 
software and infrastructure. 

Cloud Map allows you to register any application resources such as databases, 
queues, microservices, and other cloud resources with custom names. Cloud 
Map then constantly checks the health of resources to make sure the location is 
up-to-date. The application can then query the registry for the location of the 
resources needed based on the application version and deployment 
environment. 

Elastic Load Balancing 

Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) automatically distributes incoming application 
traffic across multiple targets, such as Amazon EC2 instances, containers, and 
IP addresses. It can handle the varying load of your application traffic in a single 
Availability Zone or across multiple Availability Zones. Elastic Load Balancing 
offers three types of load balancers that all feature the high availability, 
automatic scaling, and robust security necessary to make your applications fault 
tolerant. 

•  Application Load Balancer is best suited for load balancing of HTTP and 

HTTPS traffic and provides advanced request routing targeted at the 
delivery of modern application architectures, including microservices and 
containers. Operating at the individual request level (Layer 7), 
Application Load Balancer routes traffic to targets within Amazon Virtual 
Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) based on the content of the request. 

Page 74 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

•  Network Load Balancer is best suited for load balancing of TCP traffic 
where extreme performance is required. Operating at the connection 
level (Layer 4), Network Load Balancer routes traffic to targets within 
Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) and is capable of handling 
millions of requests per second while maintaining ultra-low latencies. 
Network Load Balancer is also optimized to handle sudden and volatile 
traffic patterns. 

•  Classic Load Balancer provides basic load balancing across multiple 

Amazon EC2 instances and operates at both the request level and 
connection level. Classic Load Balancer is intended for applications that 
were built within the EC2-Classic network. 

Robotics 

AWS RoboMaker 

AWS RoboMaker is a service that makes it easy to develop, test, and deploy 
intelligent robotics applications at scale. RoboMaker extends the most widely 
used open-source robotics software framework, Robot Operating System 
(ROS), with connectivity to cloud services. This includes AWS machine learning 
services, monitoring services, and analytics services that enable a robot to 
stream data, navigate, communicate, comprehend, and learn. RoboMaker 
provides a robotics development environment for application development, a 
robotics simulation service to accelerate application testing, and a robotics fleet 
management service for remote application deployment, update, and 
management. 

Robots are machines that sense, compute, and take action. Robots need 
instructions to accomplish tasks, and these instructions come in the form of 
applications that developers code to determine how the robot will behave. 
Receiving and processing sensor data, controlling actuators for movement, and 
performing a specific task are all functions that are typically automated by these 
intelligent robotics applications. Intelligent robots are being increasingly used in 
warehouses to distribute inventory, in homes to carry out tedious housework, 
and in retail stores to provide customer service. Robotics applications use 
machine learning in order to perform more complex tasks like recognizing an 
object or face, having a conversation with a person, following a spoken 
command, or navigating autonomously. Until now, developing, testing, and 
deploying intelligent robotics applications was difficult and time consuming. 

Page 75 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Building intelligent robotics functionality using machine learning is complex and 
requires specialized skills. Setting up a development environment can take 
each developer days and building a realistic simulation system to test an 
application can take months due to the underlying infrastructure needed. Once 
an application has been developed and tested, a developer needs to build a 
deployment system to deploy the application into the robot and later update the 
application while the robot is in use. 

AWS RoboMaker provides the tools to make building intelligent robotics 
applications more accessible, a fully managed simulation service for quick and 
easy testing, and a deployment service for lifecycle management. AWS 
RoboMaker removes the heavy lifting from each step of robotics development 
so you can focus on creating innovative robotics applications. 

Satellite 

AWS Ground Station 

AWS Ground Station is a fully managed service that lets you control satellite 
communications, downlink and process satellite data, and scale your satellite 
operations quickly, easily and cost-effectively without having to worry about 
building or managing your own ground station infrastructure. Satellites are used 
for a wide variety of use cases, including weather forecasting, surface imaging, 
communications, and video broadcasts. Ground stations are at the core of 
global satellite networks, which are facilities that provide communications 
between the ground and the satellites by using antennas to receive data and 
control systems to send radio signals to command and control the satellite. 
Today, you must either build your own ground stations and antennas, or obtain 
long-term leases with ground station providers, often in multiple countries to 
provide enough opportunities to contact the satellites as they orbit the globe. 
Once all this data is downloaded, you need servers, storage, and networking in 
close proximity to the antennas to process, store, and transport the data from 
the satellites. 

AWS Ground Station eliminates these problems by delivering a global Ground 
Station as a Service. We provide direct access to AWS services and the AWS 
Global Infrastructure including our low-latency global fiber network right where 
your data is downloaded into our AWS Ground Station. This enables you to 
easily control satellite communications, quickly ingest and process your satellite 
data, and rapidly integrate that data with your applications and other services 

Page 76 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

running in the AWS Cloud. For example, you can use Amazon S3 to store the 
downloaded data, Amazon Kinesis Data Streams for managing data ingestion 
from satellites, Amazon SageMaker for building custom machine learning 
applications that apply to your data sets, and Amazon EC2 to command and 
download data from satellites. AWS Ground Station can help you save up to 
80% on the cost of your ground station operations by allowing you to pay only 
for the actual antenna time used, and relying on our global footprint of ground 
stations to download data when and where you need it, instead of building and 
operating your own global ground station infrastructure. There are no long-term 
commitments, and you gain the ability to rapidly scale your satellite 
communications on-demand when your business needs it. 

Security, Identity, and Compliance 

AWS Security Hub 

AWS Security Hub gives you a comprehensive view of your high-priority 
security alerts and compliance status across AWS accounts. There are a range 
of powerful security tools at your disposal, from firewalls and endpoint 
protection to vulnerability and compliance scanners. But oftentimes this leaves 
your team switching back-and-forth between these tools to deal with hundreds, 
and sometimes thousands, of security alerts every day. With Security Hub, you 
now have a single place that aggregates, organizes, and prioritizes your 
security alerts, or findings, from multiple AWS services, such as Amazon 
GuardDuty, Amazon Inspector, and Amazon Macie, as well as from AWS 
Partner solutions. Your findings are visually summarized on integrated 
dashboards with actionable graphs and tables. You can also continuously 
monitor your environment using automated compliance checks based on the 
AWS best practices and industry standards your organization follows. Get 
started with AWS Security Hub just a few clicks in the Management Console 
and once enabled, Security Hub will begin aggregating and prioritizing findings. 

Amazon Cloud Directory 

Amazon Cloud Directory enables you to build ﬂexible, cloud-native directories 
for organizing hierarchies of data along multiple dimensions. With Cloud 
Directory, you can create directories for a variety of use cases, such as 
organizational charts, course catalogs, and device registries. While traditional 
directory solutions, such as Active Directory Lightweight Directory Services (AD 
LDS) and other LDAP-based directories, limit you to a single hierarchy, Cloud 

Page 77 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Directory oﬀers you the ﬂexibility to create directories with hierarchies that span 
multiple dimensions. For example, you can create an organizational chart that 
can be navigated through separate hierarchies for reporting structure, location, 
and cost center. 

Amazon Cloud Directory automatically scales to hundreds of millions of objects 
and provides an extensible schema that can be shared with multiple 
applications. As a fully-managed service, Cloud Directory eliminates time-
consuming and expensive administrative tasks, such as scaling infrastructure 
and managing servers. You simply deﬁne the schema, create a directory, and 
then populate your directory by making calls to the Cloud Directory API. 

AWS Identity and Access Management 

AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) enables you to securely control 
access to AWS services and resources for your users. Using IAM, you can 
create and manage AWS users and groups, and use permissions to allow and 
deny their access to AWS resources. IAM allows you to do the following: 

•  Manage IAM users and their access: You can create users in IAM, 

assign them individual security credentials (access keys, passwords, and 
multi-factor authentication devices), or request temporary security 
credentials to provide users access to AWS services and resources. You 
can manage permissions in order to control which operations a user can 
perform. 

•  Manage IAM roles and their permissions: You can create roles in IAM 

and manage permissions to control which operations can be performed 
by the entity, or AWS service, that assumes the role. You can also deﬁne 
which entity is allowed to assume the role. 

•  Manage federated users and their permissions: You can enable identity 

federation to allow existing identities (users, groups, and roles) in your 
enterprise to access the AWS Management Console, call AWS APIs, 
and access resources, without the need to create an IAM user for each 
identity. 

Amazon GuardDuty 

Amazon GuardDuty is a threat detection service that continuously monitors for 
malicious or unauthorized behavior to help you protect your AWS accounts and 
workloads. It monitors for activity such as unusual API calls or potentially 

Page 78 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

unauthorized deployments that indicate a possible account compromise. 
GuardDuty also detects potentially compromised instances or reconnaissance 
by attackers. 

Enabled with a few clicks in the AWS Management Console, Amazon 
GuardDuty can immediately begin analyzing billions of events across your AWS 
accounts for signs of risk. GuardDuty identifies suspected attackers through 
integrated threat intelligence feeds and uses machine learning to detect 
anomalies in account and workload activity. When a potential threat is detected, 
the service delivers a detailed security alert to the GuardDuty console and AWS 
CloudWatch Events. This makes alerts actionable and easy to integrate into 
existing event management and workflow systems. 

Amazon GuardDuty is cost effective and easy. It does not require you to deploy 
and maintain software or security infrastructure, meaning it can be enabled 
quickly with no risk of negatively impacting existing application workloads. 
There are no upfront costs with GuardDuty, no software to deploy, and no 
threat intelligence feeds required. Customers pay for the events analyzed by 
GuardDuty and there is a 30-day free trial available for every new account to 
the service. 

Amazon Inspector 

Amazon Inspector is an automated security assessment service that helps 
improve the security and compliance of applications deployed on AWS. 
Amazon Inspector automatically assesses applications for exposure, 
vulnerabilities, and deviations from best practices. After performing an 
assessment, Amazon Inspector produces a detailed list of security findings 
prioritized by level of severity. These findings can be reviewed directly or as 
part of detailed assessment reports which are available via the Amazon 
Inspector console or API. 

Amazon Inspector security assessments help you check for unintended network 
accessibility of your Amazon EC2 instances and for vulnerabilities on those 
EC2 instances. Amazon Inspector assessments are offered to you as pre-
defined rules packages mapped to common security best practices and 
vulnerability definitions. Examples of built-in rules include checking for access 
to your EC2 instances from the internet, remote root login being enabled, or 
vulnerable software versions installed. These rules are regularly updated by 
AWS security researchers. 

Page 79 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Amazon Macie 

Amazon Macie is a security service that uses machine learning to automatically 
discover, classify, and protect sensitive data in AWS. Amazon Macie 
recognizes sensitive data such as personally identifiable information (PII) or 
intellectual property, and provides you with dashboards and alerts that give 
visibility into how this data is being accessed or moved. The fully managed 
service continuously monitors data access activity for anomalies, and generates 
detailed alerts when it detects risk of unauthorized access or inadvertent data 
leaks. Today, Amazon Macie is available to protect data stored in Amazon S3, 
with support for additional AWS data stores coming later this year. 

AWS Artifact 

AWS Artifact is your go-to, central resource for compliance-related information 
that matters to you. It provides on-demand access to AWS’ security and 
compliance reports and select online agreements. Reports available in AWS 
Artifact include our Service Organization Control (SOC) reports, Payment Card 
Industry (PCI) reports, and certifications from accreditation bodies across 
geographies and compliance verticals that validate the implementation and 
operating effectiveness of AWS security controls. Agreements available in AWS 
Artifact include the Business Associate Addendum (BAA) and the 
Nondisclosure Agreement (NDA). 

AWS Certiﬁcate Manager 

AWS Certiﬁcate Manager is a service that lets you easily provision, manage, 
and deploy Secure Sockets Layer/Transport Layer Security (SSL/TLS) 
certiﬁcates for use with AWS services and your internal connected resources. 
SSL/TLS certiﬁcates are used to secure network communications and establish 
the identity of websites over the Internet as well as resources on private 
networks. AWS Certiﬁcate Manager removes the time-consuming manual 
process of purchasing, uploading, and renewing SSL/TLS certiﬁcates.  

With AWS Certificate Manager, you can quickly request a certificate, deploy it 
on ACM-integrated AWS resources, such as Elastic Load Balancers, Amazon 
CloudFront distributions, and APIs on API Gateway, and let AWS Certificate 
Manager handle certificate renewals. It also enables you to create private 
certificates for your internal resources and manage the certificate lifecycle 
centrally. Public and private certificates provisioned through AWS Certificate 
Manager for use with ACM-integrated services are free. You pay only for the 

Page 80 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

AWS resources you create to run your application. With AWS Certificate 
Manager Private Certificate Authority, you pay monthly for the operation of the 
private CA and for the private certificates you issue. 

AWS CloudHSM 

AWS CloudHSM is a cloud-based hardware security module (HSM) that 
enables you to easily generate and use your own encryption keys on the AWS 
Cloud. With CloudHSM, you can manage your own encryption keys using FIPS 
140-2 Level 3 validated HSMs. CloudHSM offers you the flexibility to integrate 
with your applications using industry-standard APIs, such as PKCS#11, Java 
Cryptography Extensions (JCE), and Microsoft CryptoNG (CNG) libraries. 

CloudHSM is standards-compliant and enables you to export all of your keys to 
most other commercially-available HSMs, subject to your configurations. It is a 
fully-managed service that automates time-consuming administrative tasks for 
you, such as hardware provisioning, software patching, high-availability, and 
backups. CloudHSM also enables you to scale quickly by adding and removing 
HSM capacity on-demand, with no up-front costs. 

AWS Directory Service 

AWS Directory Service for Microsoft Active Directory, also known as AWS 
Managed Microsoft AD, enables your directory-aware workloads and AWS 
resources to use managed Active Directory in the AWS Cloud. AWS Managed 
Microsoft AD is built on actual Microsoft Active Directory and does not require 
you to synchronize or replicate data from your existing Active Directory to the 
cloud. You can use standard Active Directory administration tools and take 
advantage of built-in Active Directory features such as Group Policy and single 
sign-on (SSO). With AWS Managed Microsoft AD, you can easily join Amazon 
EC2 and Amazon RDS for SQL Server instances to a domain, and use AWS 
Enterprise IT applications such as Amazon WorkSpaces with Active Directory 
users and groups. 

AWS Firewall Manager 

AWS Firewall Manager is a security management service that makes it easier 
to centrally configure and manage AWS WAF rules across your accounts and 
applications. Using Firewall Manager, you can easily roll out AWS WAF rules 
for your Application Load Balancers and Amazon CloudFront distributions 
across accounts in AWS Organizations. As new applications are created, 

Page 81 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Firewall Manager also makes it easy to bring new applications and resources 
into compliance with a common set of security rules from day one. Now you 
have a single service to build firewall rules, create security policies, and enforce 
them in a consistent, hierarchical manner across your entire Application Load 
Balancers and Amazon CloudFront infrastructure.  

AWS Key Management Service 

AWS Key Management Service (KMS) makes it easy for you to create and 
manage keys and control the use of encryption across a wide range of AWS 
services and in your applications. AWS KMS is a secure and resilient service 
that uses FIPS 140-2 validated hardware security modules to protect your keys. 
AWS KMS is integrated with AWS CloudTrail to provide you with logs of all key 
usage to help meet your regulatory and compliance needs. 

AWS Organizations 

AWS Organizations offers policy-based management for multiple AWS 
accounts. With Organizations, you can create groups of accounts, automate 
account creation, apply and manage policies for those groups. Organizations 
enables you to centrally manage policies across multiple accounts, without 
requiring custom scripts and manual processes. 

Using AWS Organizations, you can create Service Control Policies (SCPs) that 
centrally control AWS service use across multiple AWS accounts. You can also 
use Organizations to help automate the creation of new accounts through APIs. 
Organizations helps simplify the billing for multiple accounts by enabling you to 
setup a single payment method for all the accounts in your organization through 
consolidated billing. AWS Organizations is available to all AWS customers at no 
additional charge. 

AWS Secrets Manager 

AWS Secrets Manager helps you protect secrets needed to access your 
applications, services, and IT resources. The service enables you to easily 
rotate, manage, and retrieve database credentials, API keys, and other secrets 
throughout their lifecycle. Users and applications retrieve secrets with a call to 
Secrets Manager APIs, eliminating the need to hardcode sensitive information 
in plain text. Secrets Manager offers secret rotation with built-in integration for 
Amazon RDS for MySQL, PostgreSQL, and Amazon Aurora. Also, the service 
is extensible to other types of secrets, including API keys and OAuth tokens. In 

Page 82 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

addition, Secrets Manager enables you to control access to secrets using fine-
grained permissions and audit secret rotation centrally for resources in the AWS 
Cloud, third-party services, and on-premises. 

AWS Shield 

AWS Shield is a managed Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) protection 
service that safeguards web applications running on AWS. AWS Shield 
provides always-on detection and automatic inline mitigations that minimize 
application downtime and latency, so there is no need to engage AWS Support 
to beneﬁt from DDoS protection. There are two tiers of AWS Shield: Standard 
and Advanced. 

All AWS customers beneﬁt from the automatic protections of AWS Shield 
Standard, at no additional charge. AWS Shield Standard defends against most 
common, frequently occurring network and transport layer DDoS attacks that 
target your website or applications. When you use AWS Shield Standard 
with Amazon CloudFront and Amazon Route 53, you receive comprehensive 
availability protection against all known infrastructure (Layer 3 and 4) attacks. 

For higher levels of protection against attacks targeting your applications 
running on Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), Elastic Load Balancing 
(ELB), Amazon CloudFront, and Amazon Route 53 resources, you can 
subscribe to AWS Shield Advanced. In addition to the network and transport 
layer protections that come with Standard, AWS Shield Advanced provides 
additional detection and mitigation against large and sophisticated DDoS 
attacks, near real-time visibility into attacks, and integration with AWS WAF, a 
web application firewall. AWS Shield Advanced also gives you 24x7 access to 
the AWS DDoS Response Team (DRT) and protection against DDoS related 
spikes in your Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), Elastic Load Balancing 
(ELB), Amazon CloudFront, and Amazon Route 53 charges. 

AWS Shield Advanced is available globally on all Amazon CloudFront and 
Amazon Route 53 edge locations. You can protect your web applications 
hosted anywhere in the world by deploying Amazon CloudFront in front of your 
application. Your origin servers can be Amazon S3, Amazon Elastic Compute 
Cloud (EC2), Elastic Load Balancing (ELB), or a custom server outside of AWS. 
You can also enable AWS Shield Advanced directly on an Elastic IP or Elastic 
Load Balancing (ELB) in the following AWS Regions - Northern Virginia, 
Oregon, Ireland, Tokyo, and Northern California. 

Page 83 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

AWS Single Sign-On (SSO) 

AWS Single Sign-On (SSO) is a cloud SSO service that makes it easy to 
centrally manage SSO access to multiple AWS accounts and business 
applications. With just a few clicks, you can enable a highly available SSO 
service without the upfront investment and on-going maintenance costs of 
operating your own SSO infrastructure. With AWS SSO, you can easily manage 
SSO access and user permissions to all of your accounts in AWS Organizations 
centrally. AWS SSO also includes built-in SAML integrations to many business 
applications, such as Salesforce, Box, and Office 365. Further, by using the 
AWS SSO application configuration wizard, you can create Security Assertion 
Markup Language (SAML) 2.0 integrations and extend SSO access to any of 
your SAML-enabled applications. Your users simply sign in to a user portal with 
credentials they configure in AWS SSO or using their existing corporate 
credentials to access all their assigned accounts and applications from one 
place. 

AWS WAF 

AWS WAF is a web application ﬁrewall that helps protect your web applications 
from common web exploits that could aﬀect application availability, compromise 
security, or consume excessive resources. AWS WAF gives you control over 
which traﬃc to allow or block to your web application by deﬁning customizable 
web security rules. You can use AWS WAF to create custom rules that block 
common attack patterns, such as SQL injection or cross-site scripting, and rules 
that are designed for your speciﬁc application. New rules can be deployed 
within minutes, letting you respond quickly to changing traﬃc patterns. Also, 
AWS WAF includes a full-featured API that you can use to automate the 
creation, deployment, and maintenance of web security rules. 

Storage 

Amazon S3 

Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is an object storage service that 
offers industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance. 
This means customers of all sizes and industries can use it to store and protect 
any amount of data for a range of use cases, such as websites, mobile 
applications, backup and restore, archive, enterprise applications, IoT devices, 
and big data analytics. Amazon S3 provides easy-to-use management features 

Page 84 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

so you can organize your data and configure finely-tuned access controls to 
meet your specific business, organizational, and compliance requirements. 
Amazon S3 is designed for 99.999999999% (11 9's) of durability, and stores 
data for millions of applications for companies all around the world. 

Amazon Elastic Block Store 

Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) provides persistent block storage 
volumes for use with Amazon EC2 instances in the AWS Cloud. Each Amazon 
EBS volume is automatically replicated within its Availability Zone to protect you 
from component failure, oﬀering high availability and durability. Amazon EBS 
volumes oﬀer the consistent and low-latency performance needed to run your 
workloads. With Amazon EBS, you can scale your usage up or down within 
minutes—all while paying a low price for only what you provision. 

Amazon Elastic File System 

Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS) provides a simple, scalable, elastic 
file system for Linux-based workloads for use with AWS Cloud services and on-
premises resources. It is built to scale on demand to petabytes without 
disrupting applications, growing and shrinking automatically as you add and 
remove files, so your applications have the storage they need – when they need 
it. It is designed to provide massively parallel shared access to thousands of 
Amazon EC2 instances, enabling your applications to achieve high levels of 
aggregate throughput and IOPS with consistent low latencies. Amazon EFS is a 
fully managed service that requires no changes to your existing applications 
and tools, providing access through a standard file system interface for 
seamless integration. Amazon EFS is a regional service storing data within and 
across multiple Availability Zones (AZs) for high availability and durability. You 
can access your file systems across AZs and regions and share files between 
thousands of Amazon EC2 instances and on-premises servers via AWS Direct 
Connect or AWS VPN. 

Amazon EFS is well suited to support a broad spectrum of use cases from 
highly parallelized, scale-out workloads that require the highest possible 
throughput to single-threaded, latency-sensitive workloads. Use cases such as 
lift-and-shift enterprise applications, big data analytics, web serving and content 
management, application development and testing, media and entertainment 
workflows, database backups, and container storage. 

Page 85 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

Amazon FSx for Lustre 

Amazon FSx for Lustre is a fully managed file system that is optimized for 
compute-intensive workloads, such as high performance computing, machine 
learning, and media data processing workflows. Many of these applications 
require the high-performance and low latencies of scale-out, parallel file 
systems. Operating these file systems typically requires specialized expertise 
and administrative overhead, requiring you to provision storage servers and 
tune complex performance parameters. With Amazon FSx, you can launch and 
run a Lustre file system that can process massive data sets at up to hundreds 
of gigabytes per second of throughput, millions of IOPS, and sub-millisecond 
latencies. 

Amazon FSx for Lustre is seamlessly integrated with Amazon S3, making it 
easy to link your long-term data sets with your high performance file systems to 
run compute-intensive workloads. You can automatically copy data from S3 to 
FSx for Lustre, run your workloads, and then write results back to S3. FSx for 
Lustre also enables you to burst your compute-intensive workloads from on-
premises to AWS by allowing you to access your FSx file system over Amazon 
Direct Connect or VPN. FSx for Lustre helps you cost-optimize your storage for 
compute-intensive workloads: It provides cheap and performant non-replicated 
storage for processing data, with your long-term data stored durably in Amazon 
S3 or other low-cost data stores. With Amazon FSx, you pay for only the 
resources you use. There are no minimum commitments, upfront hardware or 
software costs, or additional fees. 

Amazon FSx for Windows File Server 

Amazon FSx for Windows File Server provides a fully managed native Microsoft 
Windows file system so you can easily move your Windows-based applications 
that require file storage to AWS. Built on Windows Server, Amazon FSx 
provides shared file storage with the compatibility and features that your 
Windows-based applications rely on, including full support for the SMB protocol 
and Windows NTFS, Active Directory (AD) integration, and Distributed File 
System (DFS). Amazon FSx uses SSD storage to provide the fast performance 
your Windows applications and users expect, with high levels of throughput and 
IOPS, and consistent sub-millisecond latencies. This compatibility and 
performance is particularly important when moving workloads that require 
Windows shared file storage, like CRM, ERP, and .NET applications, as well as 
home directories.  

Page 86 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

With Amazon FSx, you can launch highly durable and available Windows file 
systems that can be accessed from up to thousands of compute instances 
using the industry-standard SMB protocol. Amazon FSx eliminates the typical 
administrative overhead of managing Windows file servers. You pay for only the 
resources used, with no upfront costs, minimum commitments, or additional 
fees. 

Amazon S3 Glacier 

Amazon S3 Glacier is a secure, durable, and extremely low-cost storage 
service for data archiving and long-term backup. It is designed to deliver 
99.999999999% durability, and provides comprehensive security and 
compliance capabilities that can help meet even the most stringent regulatory 
requirements. Amazon S3 Glacier provides query-in-place functionality, 
allowing you to run powerful analytics directly on your archive data at rest. You 
can store data for as little as $0.004 per gigabyte per month, a significant 
savings compared to on-premises solutions. To keep costs low yet suitable for 
varying retrieval needs, Amazon S3 Glacier provides three options for access to 
archives, from a few minutes to several hours. 

AWS Storage Gateway 

AWS Storage Gateway is a hybrid storage service that enables your on-
premises applications to seamlessly use AWS cloud storage. You can use the 
service for backup and archiving, disaster recovery, cloud data processing, 
storage tiering, and migration. Your applications connect to the service through 
a virtual machine or hardware gateway appliance using standard storage 
protocols, such as NFS, SMB and iSCSI. The gateway connects to AWS 
storage services, such as Amazon S3, Amazon Glacier, and Amazon EBS, 
providing storage for files, volumes, and virtual tapes in AWS. The service 
includes a highly-optimized data transfer mechanism, with bandwidth 
management, automated network resilience, and efficient data transfer, along 
with a local cache for low-latency on-premises access to your most active data. 

Next Steps 
Reinvent how you work with IT by signing up for the AWS Free Tier, which 
enables you to gain hands-on experience with a broad selection of AWS 
products and services. Within the AWS Free Tier, you can test workloads and 

Page 87 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

run applications to learn more and build the right solution for your organization. 
You can also contact AWS Sales and Business Development. 

By signing up for AWS, you have access to Amazon’s cloud computing 
services. Note: The sign-up process requires a credit card, which will not be 
charged until you start using services. There are no long-term commitments 
and you can stop using AWS at any time. 

To help familiarize you with AWS, view these short videos that cover topics like 
creating an account, launching a virtual server, storing media and more. Learn 
about the breadth and depth of AWS on our general AWS Channel and AWS 
Online Tech Talks. Get hands on experience from our self-paced labs. 

Conclusion 
AWS provides building blocks that you can assemble quickly to support virtually 
any workload. With AWS, you’ll ﬁnd a complete set of highly available services 
that are designed to work together to build sophisticated scalable applications. 

You have access to highly durable storage, low-cost compute, high-
performance databases, management tools, and more. All this is available 
without up-front cost, and you pay for only what you use. These services help 
organizations move faster, lower IT costs, and scale. AWS is trusted by the 
largest enterprises and the hottest start-ups to power a wide variety of 
workloads, including web and mobile applications, game development, data 
processing and warehousing, storage, archive, and many others. 

Contributors 
The following individuals and organizations contributed to this document: 

•  Sajee Mathew, Principal Solutions Architect, Amazon Web Services 

 

Further Reading 
For additional information, see the following: 

•  AWS Architecture Center1 

Page 88 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

•  AWS Whitepapers2 

•  AWS Architecture Monthly3 

•  AWS Architecture Blog4 

•  This Is My Architecture videos5 

•  AWS Solutions6 

•  AWS Documentation7 

 

Document Revisions 

Date 

Description 

January 2020 

Minor text updates to improve accuracy. 

October 2019 

Minor text updates to improve accuracy. 

July 2019 

Minor text updates to improve accuracy. 

December 2018  Added new services and updated information throughout. 

April 2017 

Added new services and updated information throughout. 

January 2014 

First publication 

 
Notes 

1 https://aws.amazon.com/architecture/ 

2 https://aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/ 

3 https://aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/kindle/ 

4 https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/architecture/ 

 

Page 89 

 

Amazon Web Services – Overview of Amazon Web Services 

 
5 https://aws.amazon.com/this-is-my-architecture/ 

6 https://aws.amazon.com/solutions/ 

7 https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ 

 

Page 90 

 

